Volatility forecasting and assessing risk of financial markets using multi-transformer neural network based architecture. This research introduces a more reliable model for predicting market volatility. The model incorporates Transformer and Multi-transformer layers with the GARCH and LSTM models and compares their performance to classic GARCH-type models. Euro-US Dollar FX Spot Rate (EURO-USD), Australian-US Dollar FX Spot Rate (AUDUSD), S&P 500 Index, FTSE 100 Index, Reliance Industries Ltd., and Samsung Electronics Co Ltd. are analyzed. The timeframe examined is January 2005 to December 2021, with training from 2005 to 2016 and testing from 2017 to 2021. Empirical evidence suggests that hybrid Neural-network models, notably Transformer-based models, outperform individual transformers, deep learning, neural networks, and traditional GARCH-type models, even in unpredictable conditions like the COVID-19 pandemic. Within the hybrid Neural-network models, MT-GARCH and MTL-GARCH showed lower validation error (RMSE) than the other models, showing that the bagging mechanism added to the attention mechanism of the Multi-Transformer architecture helped to lower the error in the variance in the noisy data of the daily returns of the assets, reducing the RMSE of the hybrid multi-Transformer models. In addition, three to four of the five hybrid neural-network models showed appropriate risk estimates for the entire test period, as observed from the Christoffersen test. Moreover, the lengthy sample period helps test whether hybrid models perform better than classic GARCH-type models in volatile conditions like the COVID-19 pandemic.. Transformers; Deep learning; Neural networks; Forecasting; Market risk; Hybrid model. INDEX
Portfolio Optimization Based on Artificial Neural Network and GARCH-EVT-Copula Models. Forecasting volatility is an essential task in the financial market, especially in portfolio optimization. To improve the prediction accuracy of the volatilities of assets we use a hybrid ANN-EGARCH model then combining with extreme value theory and Copula models to perform out-of-sample forecasting returns for six indices in Asia stock markets then we simulate one-day-ahead returns of these indices. We use EGARCH model to capture the leverage of return shocks due to COVID-19. Based on ANN-EGARCH-EVT-Copula models, we solve our portfolio optimization consisting of these six indices with different copula models. Using different performance measures to evaluate the efficiency of the models we show that under the Sharpe ratio and Sortino ratio the Gumbel copula gives better performance whereas with Average Drawdown and Max Drawdown measures, the Gaussian copula model is a best model for optimizing the portfolio.. Portfolio optimization; artificial neural network; Copula models; GARCH models; extreme value theory
Financial Volatility Modeling with the GARCH-MIDAS-LSTM Approach: The Effects of Economic Expectations, Geopolitical Risks and Industrial Production during COVID-19. Forecasting stock markets is an important challenge due to leptokurtic distributions with heavy tails due to uncertainties in markets, economies, and political fluctuations. To forecast the direction of stock markets, the inclusion of leading indicators to volatility models is highly important; however, such series are generally at different frequencies. The paper proposes the GARCH-MIDAS-LSTM model, a hybrid method that benefits from LSTM deep neural networks for forecast accuracy, and the GARCH-MIDAS model for the integration of effects of low-frequency variables in high-frequency stock market volatility modeling. The models are being tested for a forecast sample including the COVID-19 shut-down after the first official case period and the economic reopening period in in Borsa Istanbul stock market in Turkiye. For this sample, significant uncertainty existed regarding future economic expectations, and the period provided an interesting laboratory to test the forecast effectiveness of the proposed LSTM augmented model in addition to GARCH-MIDAS models, which included geopolitical risk, future economic expectations, trends, and cycle industrial production indices as low-frequency variables. The evidence suggests that stock market volatility is most effectively modeled with geopolitical risk, followed by industrial production, and a relatively lower performance is achieved by future economic expectations. These findings imply that increases in geopolitical risk enhance stock market volatility further, and that industrial production and future economic expectations work in the opposite direction. Most importantly, the forecast results suggest suitability of both the GARCH-MIDAS and GARCH-MIDAS-LSTM models, and with good forecasting capabilities. However, a comparison shows significant root mean squared error reduction with the novel GARCH-MIDAS-LSTM model over GARCH-MIDAS models. Percentage decline in root mean squared errors for forecasts are between 39% to 95% in LSTM augmented models depending on the type of economic indicator used. The proposed approach offers a key tool for investors and policymakers.. deep neural networks; long-short term memory; volatility; GARCH; mixed data sampling; geopolitical risk; industrial production; economic expectations. DEEP NEURAL-NETWORKS; TIME-SERIES; INTEGRATING LSTM; UNIT-ROOT; STATIONARITY; INDICATORS; PRICES; POWER
Stock market forecasting accuracy of asymmetric GARCH models during the COVID-19 pandemic. We propose a new clustering approach for comparing financial time series and employ it to study how the COVID-19 pandemic affected the U.S. stock market. Essentially, we compute the forecast accuracy of asymmetric GARCH models applied to S&P500 industries and use the model forecast errors for different horizons and cut-off points to calculate a distance matrix for the stock indices. Hierarchical clustering algorithms are used to assign the set of industries into clusters. We found homogeneous clusters of industries in terms of the impact of COVID-19 on US stock market volatility. The industries most affected by the pandemic and with less accurate stock market prediction (Hotels, Airline, Apparel, Accessories & Luxury Goods, and Automobile) are separated in Euclidean distance from those industries that were less impacted by COVID-19 and which had more accurate forecasting (Pharmaceuticals, Internet & Direct Marketing Retail, Data Processing, and Movies & Entertainment).. Cluster analysis; COVID-19; Forecast accuracy; Threshold GARCH model; S & P500; Unsupervised machine learning. TIME-SERIES
Volatility Spillovers and Contagion During Major Crises: An Early Warning Approach Based on a Deep Learning Model. This paper contributes to the ongoing debate on the nature and characteristics of the volatility transmission channels of major crash events in international stock markets between 03 July 1997 and 09 March 2021. Using dynamic conditional correlations (DCC) for conditional correlations and volatility clustering, GARCH-BEKK for the direction of transmission of disturbances, and the Diebold-Yilmaz spillover index for the level of volatility contagion, the paper finds that the climbs in external shock transmissions have long-lasting impacts in domestic markets due to the contagion effect during crisis periods. The findings also reveal that the heavier magnitude of financial stress is transmitted between Asian countries via the Hong Kong stock market. Additionally, the degree of volatility spillovers between advanced and emerging equity markets is smaller compared to the pure spillovers between advanced markets or emerging markets, offering a window of opportunity for international market participants in terms of portfolio diversification and risk management applications. Furthermore, the study introduces a novel early warning system created by integrating DCC correlations with a state-of-the-art deep learning model to predict the global financial crisis and COVID-19 crisis. The experimental analysis of long short-term memory network finds evidence of contagion risk by verifying bursts in volatility spillovers and generating signals with high accuracy before the 12-month crisis period. This provides supplementary information that contributes to the decision-making process of practitioners, as well as offering indicative evidence that facilitates the assessment of market vulnerability for policymakers.. Volatility; Machine learning; Spillovers; Financial crisis; Contagion. GLOBAL FINANCIAL CRISIS; DYNAMIC CONDITIONAL CORRELATION; IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; TIME-SERIES; UNIT-ROOT; MARKET CONTAGION; STOCK; LINKAGES; PRICE; INTERDEPENDENCE
Explainable Hybrid Modeling of Stock Market Turning Points: An Integrated ARIMA-LSTM-SHAP Approach. recent years, global shocks such as the COVID-19 pandemic, geopolitical conflicts, and trade tensions have substantially intensified volatility in financial markets, thereby increasing the frequency of price turning points. This study proposes a novel approach that addresses the growing demand for artificial intelligence models that are not only highly predictive but also interpretable. Traditional econometric models, such as Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average (ARIMA) and Generalized Autoregressive Conditional Heteroskedasticity (GARCH), are effective at capturing linear dependencies but fail to adequately represent nonlinear market dynamics. Meanwhile, machine learning methods, despite their strong predictive power, often exhibit limited interpretability. To bridge this gap, this paper presents an explainable hybrid Memory (LSTM), and Shapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP). Using daily data from ten major global stock indices from January 1, 2010 to September 30, 2025, the study employs a hybrid labeling approach that combines Forecasting accuracy is further enhanced by incorporating ARIMA residual-based feature fusion. The model's performance is evaluated using both statistical (F1-Score, Precision-Recall Area Under the Curve (PR-AUC), Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE), and economic (Sharpe ratio) metrics within a walk-forward validation framework. The results show that the ARIMA-LSTM-SHAP model achieves an optimal balance between predictive accuracy and economic efficiency, achieving an F1-Score of 0.60 and a Sharpe ratio exceeding 1.5. The findings highlight the framework's practical relevance for investors and policymakers by facilitating the early detection of turning cycles and supporting risk-informed decision-making.. turning-point detection; explainable artificial intelligence; behavioral finance; adaptive market hypothesis; economic validation. TIME-SERIES
COVID-19 and Stock Market Volatility: A Clustering Approach for S&P 500 Industry Indices. We study how the COVID-19 pandemic affected some of the conditional volatilities of S&P 500 industries, using a new model feature-based clustering method on a fitted TGARCH model. Rather than using the estimated model parameters to compute a distance matrix for the stock indices, we suggest using a distance based on the autocorrelations of the estimated conditional volatilities. Both hierarchical and non-hierarchical algorithms are used to assign the set of industries into clusters. The results show a clear change in the composition of each cluster between the period before the first US COVID-19 case and the period during the pandemic.. Autocorrelation; Cluster analysis; COVID-19; Threshold GARCH model; Unsupervised machine learning; S & P 500; Volatility. TIME-SERIES
Economic policy uncertainty and AI-driven stock spillovers: Implications for portfolio diversification. This study examines how economic policy uncertainty (EPU) shapes return spillovers between major AI-driven stocks. Using daily data for seven leading AI-driven firms, this study estimates a time-varying connectedness via the TVP-VAR framework and links it to macroeconomic uncertainty using a GARCH-MIDAS-EPU model. The pre- and post-COVID analyses capture structural shifts in spillover dynamics. The results show Microsoft and Google are primary transmitters of shocks with Nvidia acting as a critical intermediary, while Tesla and IBM act as net receivers. EPU amplifies short-term connectedness but dampens long-term spillovers, reflecting risk-averse behavior and delayed investment under uncertainty. In post-pandemic periods, long-term volatility persistence strengthens and connectedness becomes more sensitive to policy shocks. Further, the portfolio testing reveals that strategies minimizing correlation and connectedness outperform traditional variance-based approaches during periods of heightened uncertainty. These findings highlight AI-driven equities as a critical channel of macro-policy risk transmission and provide actionable insights for investors, portfolio managers, and policymakers in innovation-driven financial markets.. Artificial intelligence-driven stocks; Economic policy uncertainty; Spillovers; Portfolio diversification. IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; VOLATILITY
Financial volatility modeling with option-implied information and important macro-factors. The research debate on the informational content embedded in option prices mostly approves the incremental predictive power of implied volatility estimates for financial volatility forecasting beyond that contained in GARCH and realized variance models. Contributing to this ongoing debate, we introduce the novel AIM-HEAVY model, a tetravariate system with asymmetries, option-implied volatility, and economic uncertainty variables beyond daily and intra-daily dispersion measures included in the benchmark HEAVY specification. We associate financial with macroeconomic uncertainties to explore the macro-financial linkages in the high-frequency domain. In this vein, we further focus on economic factors that exacerbate stock market volatility and represent major threats to financial stability. Hence, our findings are directly connected to the current world-wide Coronavirus outbreak. Financial volatilities are already close to their crisis-peaks amid the generalized fear about controversial economic policies to support societies and the financial system, especially in the case of the heavily criticized UK authorities' delayed and limited response.. Economic policy uncertainty; high-frequency data; implied volatility; macro-financial linkages; realized variance; risk management. STOCK-MARKET VOLATILITY; ECONOMIC-POLICY UNCERTAINTY; REALIZED VOLATILITY; ASYMPTOTIC THEORY; RETURN VARIANCE; GARCH; EXCHANGE; RISK; INFERENCE; PRICES
Sentiment analysis of financial news on Bloomberg and its impact on the Euro Stoxx 50. Purpose - In an environment where real-time information flows increasingly shape financial markets, this study investigates the impact of financial news sentiment on the daily returns of the Euro Stoxx 50 index from January 2022 to March 2024. The aim of this study is to examine whether sentiment derived from Bloomberg articles can predict stock returns and how this relationship is conditioned by market volatility and lagged performance. Design/methodology/approach - Sentiment scores were computed using the Loughran-McDonald Lexicon applied to Bloomberg news headlines. These sentiment metrics were matched with daily Euro Stoxx 50 returns and market volatility indicators (VIX). A panel data framework was adopted using both fixed and random effects estimators, with the Hausman test guiding model selection. Additionally, year-by-year ordinary least squares regressions were conducted to capture temporal variation in sentiment effects across the post-COVID period. Findings - The results indicate that financial news sentiment exerted a significant positive influence on Euro Stoxx 50 returns, particularly in periods of heightened market volatility. The predictive power of sentiment appears stronger during uncertain conditions, highlighting the role of investor psychology in shaping short-term market movements. However, the effect is not uniform over time, suggesting it is sensitive to prevailing market conditions. Practical implications - From a managerial perspective, findings carry important implications for corporate communication practices. In fact, the measurable effect of news tone on market valuation underscores the power of language in shaping investor perception. Firms may be tempted to use optimistic wording in press releases or earnings announcements to elicit favorable short-term market reactions, even when underlying fundamentals are unchanged. Originality/value - This study contributes to the growing literature on behavioral finance by offering new evidence on the conditional impact of sentiment on equity returns in a post-pandemic context. It highlights the limitations of traditional asset pricing models in explaining price formation under uncertainty and supports the integration of sentiment analytics into investment decision-making and risk assessment.. Investor sentiment; Stock market; Market efficiency; Behavioral finance. INVESTOR SENTIMENT; TEXTUAL ANALYSIS; PROSPECT-THEORY; SOCIAL MEDIA; MARKET; RETURNS; NOISE; MODEL
The role of categorical EPU indices in predicting stock-market returns. This study investigates the predictive ability of categorical economic-policy uncertainty (EPU) indices for stock-market returns. The results indicate that some categorical EPU indices have superior predictive ability for stock returns and even achieve higher realized utility than the original EPU index and popular predictors. Furthermore, the diffusion indices based on EPU categories, especially those that use partial least squares (PLS) to extract the principal compo-nents, more effectively use the forecast information contained in categorical EPU indices, resulting in improved forecast performance, including reduced forecast errors and increased economic value for investors. In addition, the categorical EPU indices show superior forecasting performance during economic-expansion, the China-US trade-war, and COVID-19 pandemic periods.. EPU index; Categorical EPU index; Stock return predictability; Dimension reduction approach; Forecast combination. ECONOMIC-POLICY UNCERTAINTY; COMBINATION FORECASTS; CROSS-SECTION; VOLATILITY; PREMIUM; PREDICTABILITY; SAMPLE; CHINA
Investor sentiment and stock markets during the war in pandemic time. Purpose - This paper aims to use three proxy variables - initial public offerings, trading volume and business confidence index (BCI) to construct an investor sentiment index both for the USA and China, taking into account the challenging periods of the COVID-19 pandemic and the Russo-Ukrainian conflict. Design/methodology/approach - Based on monthly data for a period from January 2009 to June 2022, this paper uses data of BCI, consumer confidence index (CCI), gross domestic product, trading volume and Fama and French (1993) factor data; linear regression of single and multifactor model; and EGARCH-M model for analyzing the effect of investor sentiment on stock market return and volatility, both in the USA and China. Findings - The empirical results indicate the suitability of BCI over CCI as a measure of investor sentiment, both in the USA and China. The results indicate that investor sentiment has a significant positive effect on the excess returns in the stock market in both countries. Moreover, the effect of investor sentiment is higher in China than it is in the USA. Such an effect of investor sentiment is significant and fluctuates asymmetrically in the short run but loses its significance in the long run. Optimistic investor sentiment has a larger effect on the stock market volatility in the USA, while the pessimistic investor sentiment has a larger effect in the Chinese stock market. Originality/value - This paper focuses on finding a more suitable proxy for investor sentiment from BCI or CCI. This paper also contributes by including both optimism and pessimism in explaining the stock return and volatility in both markets. The overall fi ndings are important for understanding investor behavior in different market conditions.. Investor sentiment; Stock returns; COVID-19 pandemic; Russo-Ukrainian conflict; USA and China. CONSUMER CONFIDENCE; RETURNS EVIDENCE; CROSS-SECTION; RISK; VOLATILITY; DYNAMICS; PREDICT; PRICES; MODEL
Connectedness analysis of price return index among Malaysian economic sectors. PurposeThis study aims to explore the connectedness of price return index spillovers across eight economic sectors in the Malaysian stock market (Bursa Malaysia). Design/methodology/approachThe analysis uses daily data of sectoral price index from 10 May 2005 to 24 February 2021. The study uses Bayesian time-varying parameter vector autoregressive. FindingsThe degree of price return index spillovers varies over time, reaching unprecedented heights during the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020. The industrial economic sector is the main transmitter of price index return shock, whereas the utilities economic sector is the dominant receiver of index return spillovers. Originality/valueThe findings are critical for investors, market participants, businesses and policymakers in developing action plans for the vulnerable sectors. It further enhances investors' confidence in making investment decisions.. Connectedness; Business sector; COVID-19; Price index; G11; G17. IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; STOCK-MARKET; VOLATILITY SPILLOVERS; SYSTEMIC RISK; COVID-19; UNCERTAINTY; EFFICIENCY; CONTAGION; IMPACT; MODEL
A News Sentiment Index and Its Asymmetric Effect on Market Liquidity for the Chinese Stock Market. This paper measured investor sentiment using the News Sentiment Index (NSI) and examined its asymmetric impact on market liquidity, particularly focusing on how these effects changed during the COVID-19 pandemic in the Chinese stock market. Constructed from comprehensive news data sourced from the Global Database on Events, Location, and Tone (GDELT), the NSI encapsulates the sentiment dynamics relevant to the Chinese stock market. We applied the unit root and cointegration tests with time-varying volatilities, which showed that sentiment follows a random walk with time-varying volatility and is cointegrated (co-moved) with liquidity. While the relationship between sentiment and market liquidity has been extensively studied, the asymmetric effects of sentiment on liquidity have remained largely unexplored. Our study fills this gap by applying the vector error correction model (VECM), which revealed that liquidity's response to sentiment is more pronounced under pessimistic conditions (7.04%) compared to optimistic ones (6.13%). However, this asymmetry appears to have been moderated during the COVID-19 pandemic, indicating a shift in sentiment's influence on liquidity amid heightened uncertainty. By capturing the dynamics of investor sentiment and its asymmetric effects under different market conditions, this study deepens our understanding of investor sentiment and its relationship with liquidity.. News sentiment; random walk with time-varying volatility; co-movement; market liquidity; asymmetric effect; G10; G14. INVESTOR SENTIMENT; TIME-SERIES; RETURNS; COINTEGRATION; VOLATILITY; OPTIMISM; PRICE
Impacts of COVID-19 on financial markets: from the perspective of financial stress. This research analyzes the impacts of COVID-19 on financial markets from the perspective of financial stress. Effects on financial stress and its cross-border spillovers are investigated, respectively. The results show that the stress of a country's financial system is positively correlated with the severity of COVID-19 pandemic the country experiences. Although the volatilities of financial stress increased slightly, the cross-border spillovers have increased significantly after the COVID-19 outbreak. We provide a new insight to the impacts of the COVID-19 and suggest a more prudent look at financial risk management.. COVID-19; financial stress; spillover; GARCH. VOLATILITY
Forecasting the conditional heteroscedasticity of stock returns using asymmetric models based on empirical evidence from Eastern European countries: Will there be an impact on other industries?. This empirical study investigates the leverage effect in six Eastern European countries under normal and non-normal distribution densities for the sample period from January 2020 to August 2020. We find three countries, Bulgaria, Czech Republic and Russia which are subject to ARCH effect whereas Poland, Romania and Hungary do not exhibit ARCH effect in daily stock returns. Further, our study finds leverage effect, where past bad news affects is asymmetrical, past negative returns cause more volatility in current stock returns as compared to past positive returns, in three Eastern European countries. Based on the AIC and BIC model selection criteria we find that the non-normal student t-distribution and GED produce reliable estimates for Bulgaria, Czech Republic and Poland, respectively. The autocorrelation function Q1 statistic confirms the insignificance of autocorrelation in residuals of TGARCH model. The impact of stock market dynamics on other industries, such as pharmaceutical industry, textile and clothing industry, automotive industry is significant, especially in the conditions of COVID-19 pandemic.. stock market; Eastern European countries; TGARCH model; leverage effect; return. VOLATILITY; LEVERAGE; MARKETS
Spreading the fear: The central role of CBOE VIX in global stock market uncertainty. Construction of efficient portfolios is reliant on understanding the correlation between assets. If correlations change markedly during times of economic turmoil then investors are exposed to greater risk at the most inopportune time. We examine the linkages between global stock markets using measures of market uncertainty (implied volatility). Using a sample of daily changes in G7 and BRIC implied volatility measures, over a 20-year sample period, we demonstrate that uncertainty in U.S. markets plays a pivotal role in global stock market uncertainty. Fear is spread across markets, as heightened uncertainty in U.S. markets is transmitted across global markets. Conversely, changes in global market uncertainty do not explain changes in U.S. market uncertainty. While there is a clear increase in connectedness during crisis periods, we observe a disparity in the way that inter-dependencies change during the two major economic crises in our sample period; the GFC (2007-2009) and COVID-pandemic (2020). The additional importance of US news largely drives our results during the GFC, while the effect is spread among several countries (particularly within European markets) during COVID.. Market uncertainty; Implied volatility; VIX; Investor fear; Linkages; COVID. VOLATILITY; TRANSMISSION; CONTAGION; LINKAGES
Assessing asymmetric connectedness and spillover in Islamic equity markets: a non-linear perspective for investors. We measure the asymmetric connectedness between a sample of 26 developed and emerging Islamic equity markets from November 2008 to February 2022 based on daily data. We employ an asymmetric quantile cross-spectral approach to measure returns coherence during short-, medium- and long-run periods for the complete sample and COVID-19 period. Our results highlight that Canada and France act as transmitters, whereas Germany and the United Kingdom appear as major recipients of changes during both samples. Middle Eastern markets (Jordan, Lebanon, Oman) shifted their role from receiving changes to the transmitter during the COVID-19 period. Japan stands apart with minimal return co-movements. Overall, our results demonstrate that like conventional equities, Shariah-compliant stocks also remain vulnerable during the COVID-19 period. Our study carries useful implications for investors and policymakers.. COVID-19; Islamic equities; cross-spectral; connectedness; returns coherence; I18; G23; C32; G15. GLOBAL FINANCIAL CRISIS; VOLATILITY SPILLOVER; STOCK; RETURNS; INDEXES; COMOVEMENT
Optimization in volatility estimation for imperfect financial markets: a GARCH modeling analysis. This study aims to enhance the accuracy of volatility estimation in imperfect financial markets, particularly during the COVID-19 pandemic and non-pandemic periods. It also examines the dynamic behavior of volatility, focusing on how market imperfections influence volatility, particularly during periods of crisis like COVID-19. The study investigates the extent to which COVID-19 triggers changes in information content, which, in turn, affects volatility. The research proposes a GARCH-X framework that incorporates various market imperfections as exogenous variables (Model 1), the interaction between COVID-19 and asymmetric information (Model 2), and the degree of imperfection as an exogenous variable (Model 3). A refined contribution of this study is the use of entropy to measure market imperfections and the degree of imperfection. All models yield significant results, signifying that market imperfections influence volatility behavior. An empirical finding nominating that the proposed model is superior to conventional GARCH models in both in-sample and out-of-sample periods.. Volatility estimation; market imperfections; GARCH modeling; shannon entropy; G10-General; G12-Asset pricing; Trading Volume; Bond Interest Rates; G19-Other; G15-International Financial Markets. INFORMATION; RETURNS; RISK
Volatility in International Stock Markets: An Empirical Study during COVID-19. Predicting volatility is a must in the finance domain. Estimations of volatility, along with the central tendency, permit us to evaluate the chances of getting a particular result. Financial analysts are frequently challenged with the assignment of diversifying assets in order to form efficient portfolios with a higher risk to reward ratio. The objective of this research is to analyze the influence of COVID-19 on the return and volatility of the stock market indices of the top 10 countries based on GDP using a widely applied econometric model-generalized autoregressive conditional heteroscedasticity (GARCH). For this purpose, the daily returns of market indices from January 2019 to June 2020 were taken into consideration. The results reveal daily negative mean returns for all market indices during the COVID period (January 2020 to June 2020). Though the second quarter of the COVID period reflects a bounce back for all market indices with altered strengths, the volatility remains higher than in normal periods, signaling a bearish tendency in the market. The COVID variable, as an exogenous variance regressor in GARCH modeling, is found to be positive and significant for all market indices. Furthermore, the results confirmed the mean-reverting process for all market indices.. volatility; GARCH; stock market; risk; crisis; coronavirus; GDP. SKEWNESS; MODELS; RETURN; RISK; CAPM
Estimation of market efficiency process within time-varying autoregressive models by extended Kalman filtering approach. This paper explores a time-varying version of weak-form market efficiency that is a key component of the so-called Adaptive Market Hypothesis (AMH). One of the most common methodologies used for modeling and estimating a degree of market efficiency lies in an analysis of the serial autocorrelation in observed return series. Under the AMH, a time-varying market efficiency level is modeled by time-varying autoregressive (AR) process and traditionally estimated by the Kalman filter (KF). Being a linear estimator, the KF is hardly capable to track the hidden nonlinear dynamics that is an essential feature of the models under investigation. The contribution of this paper is threefold. We first provide a brief overview of time-varying AR models and estimation methods utilized for testing a weak-form market efficiency in econometrics literature. Secondly, we propose novel accurate estimation approach for recovering the hidden process of evolving market efficiency level by the extended Kalman filter (EKF). Thirdly, our empirical study concerns an examination of the Standard and Poor's 500 Composite stock index and the Dow Jones Industrial Average index. Monthly data covers the period from November 1927 to June 2020, which includes the U.S. Great Depression, the 2008-2009 global financial crisis and the first wave of recent COVID-19 recession. The results reveal that the U.S. market was affected during all these periods, but generally remained weak-form efficient since the mid of 1946 as detected by the estimator.(c) 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.. Adaptive market hypothesis; Degree of market inefficiency; Time-varying autoregressive models; GARCH models; Extended Kalman filter. COMPRESSED VECTOR AUTOREGRESSION; STOCK MARKETS; EVOLUTION; VOLATILITY; RETURN; STATE; US
A multimodal deep learning framework for constructing a market sentiment index from stock news. Unimodal sentiment analysis often fails to capture the complexity of financial sentiment. This paper proposes a multimodal deep learning framework that integrates text, audio, and image data from CCTV news videos on TikTok to construct a multimodal sentiment indicator for the Chinese stock market. Empirical results show that multimodal fusion enhances sentiment analysis, with text outperforming audio and image modalities. The indicator correlates weakly with stock returns but significantly with market volatility, aligns with seasonal sentiment patterns, and reflects significant events like COVID-19. Additionally, weekly sentiment trends indicate the lowest sentiment on Thursdays and the highest on Fridays. This study advances financial sentiment analysis by demonstrating the efficacy of multimodal indicators in capturing market sentiment and informing volatility forecasts.. Sentiment analysis; Stock market; Multimodal fusion; Computer vision; Natural language processing; Financial news sentiment classification; Investor Sentiment; Indicator Construction. RETURNS; FINANCE; WEATHER; FUSION
Portfolio optimization in the stock market under disruptions: Real case studies of COVID-19 pandemic and currency risk. The connection between risk and return is a critical concept in finance. Investors who take on more risk can earn higher returns. Disruptions are part of market risks, also known as systematic risks. Due to political and macroeconomic risks, their effects on the entire economic market, or a significant portion of its sectors, are not negligible. Among these sectors, the stock market is essential as a basis of the economy. The point is that the consequences of all disruptions are not merely unpleasant for companies. They may affect corporate profitability both negatively and positively. Hence, investors who trace companies' news and fundamental conditions react, and the closing price probably encounters volatility. Therefore, the common trend of several stocks may fluctuate. This research investigates how investors in the stock market should form their investment portfolio to see the minor losses when disruptions occur and take advantage of the potential provided profitability by turning threats into opportunities. A three-step framework is presented to achieve this goal. A prerequisite for this framework is the collection of relevant data. Ten stocks from distinct industries of the Securities and Exchange Organization of Iran are chosen for the examination. In the first step, multi-variate regression analysis categorizes selected stocks into the most and the least affected groups. At the same time, a comprehensive technical analysis is involved in this step. Then, in the second step, three well-known machine learning techniques, namely, stacked long short-term memory (Stacked LSTM), autoregressive integrated moving average (ARIMA), and Prophet, are compared from the point of view of predicting future closed prices of selected stocks. The method with the most minor statistical error in forecasting, i.e., root mean squared error (RMSE) and validation loss, estimates the next month's closed prices. Finally, based on the predicted closed prices, the third step empowers the investor to optimize their portfolio in different scenarios, containing various investment weights on the two obtained groups of the first step, using the Markowitz Modern Portfolio Theory. The COVID-19 pandemic and currency risk are the two examined real case studies to validate the proposed methodology. Numerical results based on the Sharp Ratio show the superiority of investing 75 percent of an asset in the most affected stocks and the rest in the least affected stocks in the case of a pandemic and vice versa for the case of currency risk, which reveals that according to the unique features of disruptions investors can benefit from both categories of stocks.. Disruption; Stock market; Regression analysis; Machine learning; Portfolio optimization. FRENCH; SHOCKS; FAMA
Improving Quantile Forecasts via Realized Double Hysteretic GARCH Model in Stock Markets. This research introduces a realized double hysteretic GARCH (R-dhGARCH) model with a skew Student's t distribution designed to improve quantile forecasts by allowing regime-switching in both volatility and measurement equations. The nonlinear model is flexible, accommodating both explosive persistence and high volatility in the first regime and effectively capturing extreme values within the volatility and measurement equations. Bayesian methods are proposed for estimating the unknown parameters of a target model while also forecasting value-at-risk (VaR) and expected shortfall (ES) simultaneously. An adaptive MCMC algorithm serves to sample from nonstandard posterior distributions. Illustrations of the proposed methods occur through a simulation study as well as from real examples. In the simulation study, parameter estimates and tail forecasts undergo evaluation. Daily data from four stock markets form the VaR and ES forecasts for a four-year out-of-sample period, including the COVID-19 pandemic period. Backtests, scoring functions, and Murphy diagrams help assess the models' forecasts. The results show that the R-dhGARCH model outperforms other models in the U.S., Japan, and South Korea markets.. Nonlinear model; Hysteretic effect; Markov chain Monte Carlo method; Value-at-risk; Expected shortfall; Skew Student's t distribution; Murphy diagrams. VALUE-AT-RISK; CONDITIONAL HETEROSCEDASTICITY; VOLATILITY; VARIANCE; POST
Volatility Connectedness of Chinese Financial Institutions: Evidence from a Frequency Dynamics Perspective. Accurately measuring systemic financial risk and analyzing its sources are important issues. This study focuses on the frequency dynamics of volatility connectedness in Chinese financial institutions using a spectral representation framework of generalized forecast error variance decomposition with the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator vector autoregression. It assesses the volatility connectedness network using complex network analysis techniques. The data are derived from 31 publicly traded Chinese financial institutions between 4 January 2011 and 31 August 2023, encompassing the Chinese stock market crash in 2015 and the COVID-19 pandemic. The frequency dynamics of the volatility connectedness results indicate that long-term connectedness peaks and cross-sectoral connectedness rises during periods of financial instability, especially in the recent bull market (2014-2015) and the 2015 Chinese stock market crash. The volatility connectedness of Chinese financial institutions declined during the COVID-19 pandemic but rose during the post-COVID-19 pandemic period. Network estimation results show that securities triggered the 2015 bull market, whereas banks were the main risk transmitters during the 2015 market crash. These results have important practical implications for supervisory authorities.. frequency volatility connectedness; Chinese financial institutions; financial regulation; LASSO-VAR; network estimation. IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; NETWORK; SPILLOVERS; RETURN
COVID-19 pandemic, stock returns, and volatility: the role of the vaccination program in Canada. This paper examines how stock returns and volatility in the Canadian stock market have been affected by both the COVID-19 pandemic and the associated vaccination program. The empirical analysis is based on the generalized autoregressive conditionally heteroskedastic model which explicitly allows the inclusion of information on the COVID-19 pandemic and the vaccination program. The analysis uses daily Canadian equity returns and volatility, spanning the period 27 January 2020, to 31 August 2021. The findings provide evidence that the COVID-19 pandemic exerts a significant negative impact on the mean of Canadian stock returns and a positive impact on their volatility. In contrast, the findings provide novel evidence that the vaccination program in Canada has reversed these detrimental effects.. Stock market returns; volatility returns; COVID-19; vaccination program; Canada; GARCH-X model. INVESTOR SENTIMENT; NATURAL DISASTERS; EMERGING MARKETS; IMPACT; CONTAGION; RISK
The Nexus between Sovereign CDS and Stock Market Volatility: New Evidence. This paper extends the studies published to date by performing an analysis of the causal relationships between sovereign CDS spreads and the estimated conditional volatility of stock indices. This estimation is performed using a vector autoregressive model (VAR) and dynamically applying the Granger causality test. The conditional volatility of the stock market has been obtained through various univariate GARCH models. This methodology allows us to study the information transmissions, both unidirectional and bidirectional, that occur between CDS spreads and stock volatility between 2004 and 2020. We conclude that CDS spread returns cause (in the Granger sense) conditional stock volatility, mainly in Europe and during the sovereign debt crisis. This transmission dynamic breaks down during the COVID-19 period, where there are high bidirectional relationships between the two markets.. CDS sovereign spread; conditional volatility; GARCH; VAR; Granger causality. CREDIT DEFAULT SWAP; EMPIRICAL-ANALYSIS; RISK; CAUSALITY; RETURNS; SPREADS; EQUITY
The outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on volatility of Indian stock market: evidence from top ten stocks of Bombay Stock Exchange. This study estimates the influence of COVID-19 on the volatility of the top ten companies of the Indian stock market. For the purpose of estimation, daily return series of these companies have been examined for a period of five years from May 2016 to May 2021. COVID-19 as variance exogenous in the GARCH (1, 1) model was employed. The time period is divided into three phases, pre-COVID (2016-2019), first phase of COVID (2020), and the second phase (2021). The results reveal that there has been a significant impact of COVID-19 on the volatility of the companies. HDFC Bank has considered being the most volatile of all, whereas, Infosys is considered the least volatile of all, taking only three days to die out the change. The study can be of most relevant to portfolio managers and financial analyst to make an informed decision regarding the diversification of their portfolio.. COVID-19; volatility; capitalisation; GARCH; stock exchange
RETRACTED: Financial contagion in financial markets: a systematic literature review and directions for future research (Retracted article. See OCT, 2025). Purpose This paper aims to provide a comprehensive overview of the existing knowledge on financial contagion through a systematic literature review. Financial contagion, the phenomenon of events spreading and affecting financial markets, has gathered significant attention from scholars and practitioners. Numerous studies have been conducted on this topic, necessitating a thorough examination of the diverse approaches and findings related to financial contagion. Design/methodology/approach This study reviews financial contagion research in the Web of Science (WoS) and Scopus databases, analyzing 66 articles. This review, based on selected keywords and defined criteria, has a total of 1,470 citations referencing these articles as of April 2023. Notably, the GARCH model and the Copula model emerged as prominent methodologies for investigating the financial contagion effect. Findings The results reveal the interconnectedness of financial markets, where economic and financial instabilities in one country affect others. The insights obtained from articles retrieved from the WoS and Scopus databases are as follows: The analyzed studies span the time range of 1999-2023. The publication count was minimal in 1999-2000 (1 each) and peaked in 2021 (13 articles), indicating a rising trend in research on financial contagion in recent years, reflecting an increased focus on the topic. The majority of articles related to financial contagion and corruption have multiple authors. Research limitations/implications This study's limitation is that network indicators are only used as explanatory variables. Future research could use these indicators to illustrate the topological configurations of financial structures, elucidating the dynamic evolution of financial networks and advancing a thorough understanding of contagion mechanisms from a network perspective. Practical implications Policymakers should consider the effects of financial contagion cross various financial markets, particularly in neighboring nations, when establishing policies address a financial crisis. Countries need to protect their economic frameworks, ensure the smooth operation of their economies and manage investment decisions within acceptable risks levels. Examining the impact of financial crises and pandemics on the financial system's vulnerability to financial contagion is essential for policymakers and risk to develop effective strategies. Originality/value By synthesizing current research findings, this paper provides insights into potential avenues for future studies on this critical topic, thereby enhancing the understanding of financial contagion. This paper enriches the existing literature by presenting a systematic overview of financial contagion research, concentrating on financial contagion during periods of financial crises and pandemics and emphasizing the increasing interest in this field in recent years. Furthermore, this paper adds to the literature on the financial contagion effects of COVID-19, offering a clearer understanding of the nature of this crisis and its distinctive characteristics.. Financial contagion; Financial crisis; Financial markets; GARCH model; Copula model; Systematic literature review. SUBPRIME CRISIS; SPILLOVERS; VOLATILITY; CAUSALITY; DYNAMICS; CHANNELS; EUROPE; IMPACT; PRICE; US
COVID-19 and instability of stock market performance: evidence from the US. The effect of COVID-19 on stock market performance has important implications for both financial theory and practice. This paper examines the relationship between COVID-19 and the instability of both stock return predictability and price volatility in the U.S over the period January 1st, 2019 to June 30th, 2020 by using the methodologies of Bai and Perron (Econometrica 66:47-78, 1998. https://doi.org/10.2307/2998540; J Appl Econo 18:1-22, 2003. https://doi.org/10.1002/jae.659), Elliot and Muller (Optimal testing general breaking processes in linear time series models. University of California at San Diego Economic Working Paper, 2004), and Xu (J Econ 173:126-142, 2013. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jeconom.2012.11.001). The results highlight a single break in return predictability and price volatility of both S&P 500 and DJIA. The timing of the break is consistent with the COVID-19 outbreak, or more specifically the stock sellingoffs by the U.S. senate committee members before COVID-19 crashed the market. Furthermore, return predictability and price volatility significantly increased following the derived break. The findings suggest that the pandemic crisis was associated with market inefficiency, creating profitable opportunities for traders and speculators. Furthermore, it also induced income and wealth inequality between market participants with plenty of liquidity at hand and those short of funds.. COVID-19; Stock returns; Structural breaks; US. AUTOCORRELATION; RETURNS; TESTS; HETEROSKEDASTICITY; VOLATILITY; PRICES
Sectoral integration on an emerging stock market: a multi-scale approach. The purpose of this study is to examine the connectedness of industry sectors on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange in a time-frequency domain. We use econophysics-based methods like the wavelet multiple correlation and wavelet scalogram difference to identify the evolution of the connectedness of the sectors over time and at different frequencies. The findings show that the sectors on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange are especially integrated at lower frequencies. Wavelet multiple correlation peaks in response to local and global shocks like the black-swan COVID-19 pandemic in 2020 and the downgrading of South African debt by Fitch in 2013. Though there are opportunities for sectoral diversification on the JSE, this fails when it is most needed, during crisis periods. Investors should therefore consider other asset classes that could serve as a haven in times of crisis. Though extant literature has examined sectoral dependencies on the stock markets of developed and developing countries, to the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to examine this connectedness in a South African context using multiple nonparametric methods that are robust to non-normality, presence of outliers as well as non-stationary data.. South Africa; Sectoral contagion; Connectedness; Spillovers; Integration; C58; G01; G11. VOLATILITY
Co-movement dynamics of US and Chinese stock market: evidence from COVID-19 crisis. This paper aims to examine the co-movement between the two economic powers, namely the USA and China. The authors are mainly interested in examining the dynamics of co-movements during, and in the pre-covid periods. Additionally, they have aimed to examine the volatility spillover between USA and China, during and in the pre-covid periods. In order to achieve the research-based objectives, advanced econometrics models have been applied to the data from July1, 2010, to April 30, 2021. The results show that the sample market is integrated in the long run. The results also indicate that the behaviour of the Chinese market is same as the US market, and offers negligible opportunities for investors for diversification during this time. The findings indicate that the Ganger Causality between the stock markets during crisis is significantly higher than the pre-crisis period. The results of EGARCH model confirm the presence of asymmetric volatility spillover effects between the US and Chinese markets, during the considered time periods. This study also examines the co-movement in China, grounded upon the robust approach that facilitates examining the dependence structure between the sample variables. The findings offer valuable understanding for investors who are looking for investment diversification opportunities worldwide.. China; COVID-19; co-movement; stock; EGARCH; volatility spillover; USA
Financial forecasting improvement with LSTM-ARFIMA hybrid models and non-Gaussian distributions. This article introduces a groundbreaking method for accurately forecasting financial stock market returns. The approach utilizes a hybrid neuro-autoregressive model, combined with a multi-objective decision-making phase, to determine the optimal distribution, offering significant relevance in modern finance. The proposal harnesses the impressive capabilities of the long short-term memory (LSTM) recurrent neural network, synergistically coupled with the autoregressive fractionally integrated moving-average (ARFIMA) model across various distribution options. This synergy enables precise management of a wide range of both linear and nonlinear time series data. Utilized on two prominent American stock market indices (Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) and Dow Jones Islamic Market International Titans 100 (IMXL) between 1/2/2015 and 12/10/2020), the experimental findings unequivocally illustrate the hybrid model's supremacy over baseline models in accuracy and computational efficiency. Notably, the forecasting experiments conducted in both tranquil and turbulent periods underscore the stability and robustness of this approach. The model's adaptability and resilience make it a promising tool for precise financial stock market return forecasts, particularly crucial in informing decisionmaking within the financial industry. Furthermore, this proposed approach contributes to the expanding research on decision support systems for financial forecasting, potentially influencing policy and strategic financial management, particularly in addressing both stable and volatile market conditions.. Decision support systems; Hybrid models; Deep neural networks; ARFIMA; Forecasting; Financial engineering; COVID-19 pandemic. UNIT-ROOT TEST; NEURAL-NETWORK
Synergy between stock prices and investor sentiment in social media. The underlying assumption of using investor sentiment to predict stock prices, stock market returns, and liquidity is that of synergy between stock prices and investor sentiment. However, this synergistic relationship has received little attention in the literature. This paper investigates the synergistic pattern between stock prices and investor sentiment using social media messages from stock market investors and natural language processing techniques. At the macro level, we reveal extremely significant positive synergy between investor sentiment and stock prices. That is, when a stock price rises, investor sentiment rises, and when a stock price falls, investor sentiment falls. However, this synergy may be reversed or even disappear over a specific time period. Through a segmented measurement of the synergy between stock prices and investor sentiment over the course of a day, we also find that investor sentiment on social media is forward looking. This provides theoretical support for using investor sentiment in stock price prediction. We also examine the effect of lockdowns, the most draconian response to COVID-19, on synergy between stock prices and investor sentiment through causal inference machine learning. Our analysis shows that external anxiety can significantly affect synergy between stock prices and investor sentiment, but this effect can promote either positive or negative synergy. This paper offers a new perspective on stock price forecasting, investor sentiment, behavioral finance, and the impact of COVID-19 on the stock markets. Copyright (c) 2022 Borsa Istanbul Anonim S, irketi. Published by Elsevier B.V. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).. COVID-19; Investor sentiment; Lockdowns; Social media; Synergy. RETURN; VOLATILITY
Covid-19 and heuristic biases: evidence from India. Stock markets worldwide have witnessed high volatility during the year 2020 owing to the eruption of Covid-19. Due to the world's unprecedented economic challenges, this study could potentially guide financial advisors and individual investors in dealing with pandemics. An association between investors' perception toward the intensity of Covid-19 and heuristic biases is analyzed using the responses of 290 stock investors of National Capital Region (NCR), India. The data are validated through Cronbach's alpha, and the model fit is analyzed using EFA. Confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) is employed to investigate the relationship between Covid-19 and heuristic biases. Covid-19 does not have any influence on the overconfidence of investors. A significant positive relationship is found between Covid-19 and the remaining three heuristics, i.e., availability, anchoring, and representativeness. The present study analyzes the association between Covid-19 and specific investors' bias only and should not be interpreted for causality. The study has the potential to guide investors in understanding the errors they are making while investing during the pandemic and the ways to deal with them. The study could provide insights to the financial advisors in understanding their customers. The implications of the study may include inputs of the errors committed by them during the pandemic. Despite the fact that an enormous amount of literature exists in the field of investors' sentiment, a scarcity of literature is available that measures the relationship between heuristic biases and the perceived impact of the pandemic. The current study attempts to fill this gap in the literature.. Availability; Anchoring; Representativeness; Overconfidence; Covid-19. INVESTMENT DECISION-MAKING; BEHAVIORAL BIASES; STOCK-MARKET; INVESTORS; INFORMATION; PERFORMANCE; OVERCONFIDENCE; UNDERREACTION; IMPACT
TIME-VARYING WEEKDAY EFFECTS IN THE VIETNAMESE STOCK MARKET: PRE-AND DURING-COVID-19 EVIDENCE. This study investigates the weekday effects in the Vietnamese stock market by using the data across two distinct periods, before and during the COVID-19 pandemic. The data series spans from January 2018 to March 2022 with five major indices: VN-Index, Largecap, Midcap, Smallcap, and VN30. We employ both OLS and GARCH (1,1) models with weekday dummies to capture mean and volatility dynamics. Our results show that weekday effects were weak and index-specific in the pre-pandemic period; only Largecap and Smallcap indices were observed with significant anomalies. However, a consistent and statistically significant Friday effect was presented across all indices during the pandemic. It indicates reduced market efficiency and provides empirical support for the Adaptive Market Hypothesis. In addition, volatility persistence decreased during the COVID-19 crisis, which means that volatility shocks became more intense but less persistent. These findings make some contributions to the literature. First, they offer multi-index, time-varying evidence of calendar anomalies in a frontier market. Second, they highlight how exogenous shocks can temporarily distort market efficiency.. Calendar Anomalies; COVID-19 Pandemic; Manufacturing Firms; The day-of-the-week Effect; Weekday Effects
Sectorial Connectivity Behavior in Times of Turmoil: A Comparison of a Geopolitical and Health Crises. This research investigates the network connectivity of Qatar's stock market during periods of volatility. It shows how connectivity between sectors altered prior to, during, and after the lockdown, as well as after the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic. To do this, we employed a Bayesian Time-Varying Parameter Vector Autoregressive (TVP-VAR) connectedness approach, which permits us to display stock market contagion over time. We also employ a quantile analysis, allowing for the capture of the dynamic connectedness among sectors under heterogeneous market conditions and checking the robustness of the TVP-VAR findings. The analysis of daily sector index data from April 1, 2007, to October 20, 2021, reveals that the geopolitical crisis significantly increased sectoral connectedness more than the health crisis, shifting network patterns during periods of high market volatility. This paper contributes to the literature by being the first to specifically compare the influence of these two crisis types on the connectedness patterns of Qatar's market, employing innovative methodologies to offer deeper insights into the time-varying nature of market contagions. The findings provide substantial implications for policymakers and investors regarding crisis management and investment strategies.. Sectoral connectedness; COVID-19 pandemic; geopolitical crisis; financial crises; G14; J15. IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; FINANCIAL CRISIS; SYSTEMIC RISK; NETWORK; VOLATILITY; CONNECTEDNESS; SPILLOVERS; CONTAGION; IMPACT; GROWTH
US Climate Shocks: The Double Risk for the Global Financial Stability. The persistent uncertainty surrounding the Trump administration's commitment to addressing climate change raises concerns that global financial stability could be compromised through spillovers from US climate-related risks. This study examines this hypothesis by analyzing the dynamic interactions between global financial instability and US climate risks using nonlinear time-varying connectedness based on a TVP-VAR framework and VAR-based local projection causality methods. It distinguishes between physical and transition risks and considers various forms of systemic financial stress at the global level, including banking and funding stress, equity market stress, safe asset stress, and market volatility, in order to inform the prediction of future global financial instability. Our findings highlight that global financial instability reacts differently depending on the nature of US climate risks. We show that transition risks have stronger predictive relationships than physical risks on global financial stability, especially after major events such as the Paris Agreement and the COVID-19 pandemic. Whereas US physical risks tend to propagate instability via safe asset markets, transition risks exert more direct pressure on credit and equity markets. In particular, safe asset markets, which absorb shocks under US physical risks, can also transmit these shocks to credit and equity markets under transition risks. This suggests the presence of flight-to-safety versus flight-to-quality behaviors among global investors, depending on the specific type of US climate risks. Overall, these findings show how climate-based financial mechanisms can strengthen early-warning signals that inform the forecasting of systemic financial risk.. climate risks; dynamic connectedness; early-warning indicators; financial stability; physical risks; transition risks; VAR local projections
Market Regime Identification and Variable Annuity Pricing: Analysis of COVID-19-Induced Regime Shifts in the Indian Stock Market. Understanding how crises like the COVID-19 pandemic affect variable annuity pricing is crucial, especially in emerging markets like India. The motivation is that financial stability and risk management in these markets depend heavily on accurate pricing models. While prior research has primarily focused on Western markets, there is a significant gap in analyzing the impact of extreme volatility and regime-dependent dynamics on variable annuities in emerging economies. This study investigates how regime shifts during the COVID-19 pandemic influence variable annuity pricing in the Indian stock market, specifically using the Nifty 50 Index data from 7 September 2017 until 7 September 2023. Advanced methodologies, including regime-switching hidden Markov models, artificial neural networks, and Monte Carlo simulations, were applied to analyze pre- and post-COVID-19 market behavior. The regime-switching hidden Markov models effectively capture latent market regimes and their transitions, which traditional models often overlook, while neural networks provide flexible functional approximations that enhance pricing accuracy in highly non-linear environments. The Expectation-Maximization (EM) algorithm was employed to achieve robust calibration and enhance pricing accuracy. The analysis showed significant pricing variations across market regimes, with heightened volatility observed during the pandemic. The findings highlight the effectiveness of regime-switching models in capturing market dynamics, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty and turbulence. This research contributes to the understanding of variable annuity pricing under regime-dependent dynamics in emerging markets and offers practical implications for improved risk management and policy formulation.. variable annuity pricing; hidden Markov model; regime switching; Monte Carlo; calibration; EM algorithm; Nifty 50 Index data; neural networks; emerging markets; C13; C32; C45; G22; N25. GUARANTEES; VALUATION; OPTIONS; MODELS
Modelling asymmetric sovereign bond yield volatility with univariate GARCH models: Evidence from India. Does Indian sovereign yield volatility reflect economic fundamentals, or whether it is a self-generated force flowing through markets with little connection to such fundamentals? To answer the question, this research explores the volatility dynamics and measures the persistence of shocks to the sovereign bond yield volatility in India from 1 January 2016, to 18 May 2022, using a family of GARCH models. The empirical results indicate the high volatility persistence across the maturity spectrum in the sample period. However, upon decomposing the markets into bull and bear phases, our results support the existence of weak volatility persistence and rapid mean reversion in the bear market. This shows that the economic response policies implemented by the government during the pandemic, including fiscal measures, have a restraining effect on sovereign yield volatility. For a positive gamma, the results suggest the possibility of a leverage effect that is markedly different from that frequently seen in stock markets. Results further indicate that the fluctuations in Indian sovereign yields cannot be dissociated from inflation and money market volatility. Our findings herein provide valuable information and implications for policymakers and financial investors worldwide.. sovereign bond yield; volatility; leverage; symmetric GARCH; COVID-19; mean reversion. UNCERTAINTY SHOCKS; RETURN RELATION; MEAN-REVERSION; STOCK MARKETS; RISK; DETERMINANTS; CONTAGION; PRICES; SPREADS; CRISIS
Unit roots in lower-bounded series with outliers. This study examines a unit root process in lower-bounded time series with additive outliers. A standard unbounded unit root test may be unsuitable when applied to nonnegative or lower-bounded data; therefore, lower-bounded unit root tests that handle outliers are proposed. The results demonstrate that these tests reject less frequently the null hypothesis of unit root because of a nuisance parameter associated with the lower bound, either in homoskedastic or heteroskedastic settings. The empirical study of inflation and stock market volatility in South America reveals the presence of outliers related to the hyperinflation crisis and stock markets owing to multiple shocks, such as the recent COVID-19 pandemic. Moreover, these series cannot reject the unit root hypothesis if the lower bound is considered.. Lower-bounded process; Unit root tests; Outliers; Inflation; Volatility. TIME-SERIES; ADDITIVE OUTLIERS; TESTS; VOLATILITY; PARAMETERS; SELECTION; MODELS; BREAKS; CRASH
Cholesky GAS models for large time-varying covariance matrices. This paper develops a new class of multivariate models for large -dimensional time -varying covariance matrices, called Cholesky generalized autoregressive score (GAS) models, which are based on the Cholesky decomposition of the covariance matrix and assume that the parameters are score -driven. Specifically, two types of score -driven updates are considered: one is closer to the GARCH family, and the other is inspired by the stochastic volatility model. We demonstrate that the models can be estimated equation -wise and are computationally feasible for high -dimensional cases. Moreover, we design an equationwise dynamic model averaging or selection algorithm which simultaneously extracts model and parameter uncertainties, equipped with dynamically estimated model parameters. The simulation results illustrate the superiority of the proposed models. Finally, using a sizeable daily return dataset that includes 124 sectors in the Chinese stock market, two empirical studies with a small sample and a full sample are conducted to verify the advantages of our models. The full sample analysis by a dynamic correlation network documents significant structural changes in the Chinese stock market before and after COVID-19. (c) 2023 China Science Publishing & Media Ltd. Publishing Services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY -NC -ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).. Cholesky decomposition; GAS; Dynamic conditional correlations; Dynamic model averaging. AUTOREGRESSIVE CONDITIONAL HETEROSCEDASTICITY; REALIZED VOLATILITY; SYSTEMIC RISK; GARCH MODELS; SERIES; VARIANCE; DRIVEN
Modelling and forecasting COVID-19 stock returns using asymmetric GARCH-ICAPM with mixture and heavy-tailed distributions. COVID-19 pandemic is an extreme event that created turmoil in stock markets around the world. This unexpected circumstance poses a critical question of whether the prevailing models can help predict the plummets of indices, hence the returns. In this study, we aim to analyse and forecast the daily stock returns using various generalized autoregressive conditional heteroscedastic (GARCH) models with intertemporal capital asset pricing structure and innovation following (1) a mixture of generalized Pareto and Gaussian distributions and (2) generalized error distribution that can capture extreme events. We also employ the parallel griddy Gibbs (GG) sampling, which is a Markov chain Monte Carlo method, to facilitate parameter estimation. Our simulation study shows that the GG estimation method outperforms the benchmark quasi-maximum likelihood estimation method. We then proceed to the empirical study of seven stock markets where the results from the in-sample period before the COVID-19 pandemic justify the use of the proposed GARCH models. The out-of-sample forecasts during the early COVID-19 period also show satisfactory results.. COVID-19 pandemic; bayesian markov chain monte carlo; asymmetric GARCH; ICAPM; mixture distribution; generalized pareto distribution. LOG-GARCH; RISK; OPTIMIZATION; VOLATILITY; PARAMETER; NETWORKS; FAMILY
Quantifying the volatility spillover dynamics between financial stress and US financial sectors: Evidence from QVAR connectedness. This study uses quantile vector-autoregressive to examine volatility connectedness among a global financial stress index (including five categories: credit, equity valuation, funding, safe assets, and volatility) and US financial sectors under low, moderate, and extreme volatility conditions. The dataset includes the special periods covering the global financial crisis, China crisis, COVID-19 pandemic, Russian-Ukrainian war, Silicon Valley Bank failure, and Credit Suisse bank crisis. The findings imply that spillover effects among the series are higher during extreme volatility than during low and moderate volatility periods. During periods of low volatility, the credit category of the financial stress index and the US financial sector indices are net shock transmitters, but during extreme volatility periods, the US financial sectors become net shock receivers alongside the credit and funding categories of the financial stress indices. US financial sectors also exhibit net shock recipient roles at extreme volatility levels during those special periods.. Global financial stress; Quantile connectedness; Volatility spillovers. ECONOMIC-POLICY UNCERTAINTY; IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; NETWORK TOPOLOGY; STOCK MARKETS; SYSTEMIC RISK; TRANSMISSION; BANKING; INDEX
Analyzing airlines stock price volatility during COVID-19 pandemic through internet search data. Recent Coronavirus pandemic has prompted many regulations which are affecting the stock market. Especially because of lockdown policies across the world, the airlines industry is suffering. We analyse the stock price movements of three major airlines companies using a new approach which leverages a measure of internet concern on different topics. In this approach, Twitter data and Google Trends are used to create a set of predictors which then leads to an appropriately modified GARCH model. In the analysis, first we show that the ongoing pandemic has an unprecedented severe effect. Then, the proposed model is used to analyse and forecast stock price volatility of the airlines companies. The findings establish that our approach can successfully use the effects of internet concern for different topics on the movement of stock price index and provide good forecasting accuracy. Model confidence set (MCS) procedure further shows that the short-term volatility forecasts are more accurate for this method than other candidate models. Thus, it can be used to understand the stock market during a pandemic in a better way. Further, the proposed approach is attractive and flexible, and can be extended to other related problems as well.. American Airlines; COVID-19; Delta Airlines; Google Trends; Twitter data; United Airlines. MODEL
An exploration of the mathematical structure and behavioural biases of 21st century financial crises. In this paper we contrast the dynamics of the 2022 Ukraine invasion financial crisis with notable financial crises of the 21st century - the dot-com bubble, global financial crisis and COVID-19. We study the similarity in market dynamics and associated implications for equity investors between various financial market crises and we introduce new mathematical techniques to do so. First, we study the strength of collective dynamics during different market crises, and compare suitable portfolio diversification strategies with respect to the unique number of sectors and stocks for optimal systematic risk reduction. Next, we introduce a new linear operator method to quantify distributional distance between equity returns during various crises. Our method allows us to fairly compare underlying stock and sector performance during different time periods, normalising for those collective dynamics driven by the overall market. Finally, we introduce a new combinatorial portfolio optimisation framework driven by random sampling to investigate whether particular equities and equity sectors are more effective in maximising investor risk-adjusted returns during market crises.. Financial market crises; Nonlinear time series analysis; Portfolio optimisation. METEOROLOGICAL NORMALIZATION; PORTFOLIO OPTIMIZATION; CROSS-CORRELATIONS; AIR-QUALITY; TIME-SERIES; MODELS; VOLATILITY; WORLD
Performances of Islamic and conventional equities during the global health crisis: Time-frequency analysis of BRICS+T markets. This study investigates the dynamic linkages and spillover effect between emerging economies (BRICS and Turkey), focusing on global crises, notably the COVID-19 pandemic. The study uses daily frequency data covering the period from 2002M5 to 2021M03. For the methodology, the paper employs Wavelet Coherence for multiresolution time-frequency analysis in addition to the frameworks of Diebold-Yilmaz Connectedness Index (DY12) and Barunik-Krehlik Frequency Connectedness Index (BK18). The empirical results reveal that the stock market comovements among sample markets are non-monotonous and depend on the time and frequency of returns. Significant correlations among the sample countries and a spike in overall spillover are also evident at the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic or the Global Health Crisis (GHC). China, Brazil, Russia, and Turkey with all the other markets, experienced the weakest links during the GHC. Brazil, Russia, and South Africa act consistently (across different horizons) as net transmitters, whereas India, China, and Turkey perform as net receivers. Islamic equities are more likely to give and less prone to receive than conventional equities. Compared to the Global Financial Crisis (GFC), the GHC effect is more severe but short-lived. The findings of this study are helpful to policymakers and diverse investors when making portfolio diversification decisions.. BRICS; COVID-19; interconnectedness; Islamic finance; spillovers; Turkey. IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; FINANCIAL CRISIS; VOLATILITY SPILLOVERS; STOCK MARKETS; CONNECTEDNESS; COMOVEMENTS; INVESTMENT; DYNAMICS; RETURN; FUNDS
Risk contagion in global REITs markets based on volatility spillover networks. In the context of financial globalization, the issue of risk spillovers between financial markets in different regions of the world has become increasingly important. This paper examines the risk spillover effects among REIT markets in 17 countries and regions in the context of significant crisis events. We first compute the variance decomposition spillover index based on the time-varying parameter method (TVP-VAR model), and then analyze the time-varying risk contagion effects among global REITs markets by examining the network topology over different time periods. We prove that the overall volatility spillover effect in the global REITs market shows a significant increase with the emergence of the epidemic, while there is a more pronounced decrease during Brexit and the US-China trade war. Developed REITs markets, expect the UK, have greater risk spillovers and risk tolerance, and tend to be net spillovers, especially before the outbreak of the pandemic. However, for some developing countries and regions, the risk spillover effect increased significantly after the outbreak of the pandemic.. REITs; Volatility spillovers; Global epidemic; Complex networks; Risk contagion. CONNECTEDNESS
Quantile-based spillover connectedness among stochastic volatilities of ESG equities, Islamic and conventional stocks with implications for portfolio management. PurposeThis study aims to investigate the relationship between stock markets, environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors and Shariah-compliant in an integrated framework.Design/methodology/approachThe authors employ the multivariate factor stochastic volatility (mvFSV) framework to extract the volatility of the different sectoral indices. Based on this evidence, the authors employ the quantile vector autoregressive (QVAR) approach to examine the dynamic spillover connectedness among the aforementioned indices.FindingsThe study emphasizes the following major findings: (1) significant time-varying spillover connectedness across quantiles, (2) bidirectional and asymmetric spillover effect among the ESG index and the other sectoral indices, (3) the strength of spillover connectedness is time-varying across quantiles, (4) based on the perspective of portfolio optimization, ESG market is a significant strong forecasting contributor to conventional and Shariah-compliant markets, (5) overall, the findings point out serious quantile pass-through effect among ESG index and the other sectoral indices during the COVID-19 health crisis.Originality/valueThis study extends the previous literature in the following ways. First, to the best of the researchers' knowledge, none of the existing studies have investigated the relationship between stock markets, ESG factors and Shariah-compliant in an integrated framework. Second, this study extends the previous scholarships by applying the mvFSV. Third, the authors propose a new rolling version to estimate dynamic spillovers, namely the rolling-window quantile VAR method. This approach provides a great advantage in computing the dynamics of return and variance spillover between variables in terms not only of the overall factor but also of the net (pairwise) aspect.. Volatility; Spillover connectedness; ESG index; Shariah-compliant; Portfolio diversification. SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT; SRI FUNDS; RISK; PERFORMANCE; DEBT; FIRMS; COST; INVESTORS; BANKING; CRISIS
Quantile connectedness between Sukuk bonds and the impact of COVID-19. The purpose of this study is to investigate the return connectedness in the median, left, and right tail, using the novel methodology of quantile-based connectedness proposed by Ando et al. (2018). We use daily data covering the period from 1 January 2013 to 27 October 2020, which includes different financial crises occurring in GCC, Turkey, Malaysia, and Indonesia. Furthermore, analysing the dynamic connectedness, the Sukuk market was significantly influenced by the COVID-19 pandemic. Our findings reveal that the spillover structures in both upper and lower tails differ from those observed in the middle quantile. Finally, we find that Bahrain, Malaysia, Oman, and Qatar transmitted more spillovers than they admitted during the COVID-19 outbreak. These findings offer vital implications for regulators and policymakers, investors, traders, and portfolio managers regarding whether diversification across Sukuk indices is achievable during turbulent periods like COVID-19.. COVID-19; Sukuk bonds; quantile connectedness; extreme return spillovers. VOLATILITY SPILLOVERS; RISK SPILLOVERS; STOCK MARKETS; TRANSMISSION; CRISIS; RETURN
The impact of COVID-19 on sovereign contagion. In the midst of the unprecedented COVID-19 pandemic crisis, the scope of the current study is to outline the channels of shock propagation across sovereigns under these unprecedent conditions. We use a sample of Eu-ropean countries for a period of twelve years that encompasses the COVID-19 as well as the turbulent period of the European debt crisis. We apply Bayesian Vector Autoregressive techniques to show a dramatic increase in sovereign contagion during the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, even higher than the increase recorded during the European Debt crisis. The result works through government response and containment measures. Extensive and severe detachment from any financial fundamentals is evident. The announcements of fiscal and monetary easing measures have eliminated the tension in the markets. When focusing on the period of the pandemic the impact of the national culture emerges through the channel of collectivism.. COVID-19; Contagion; Sovereign risk; Dynamic panel analysis; Spillover matrix. CREDIT DEFAULT SWAP; EMPIRICAL-ANALYSIS; NATIONAL CULTURE; STOCK MARKETS; DEBT; RISK; CDS; VOLATILITY; SPILLOVERS; LIQUIDITY
Using Bell violations as an indicator for financial market crisis. The failure to identify and measure financial risk carries significant social and economic consequences. This paper introduces a novel framework for analyzing financial stress and crises, based on the Bell inequalities, a foundational framework in causal analysis, originally developed in quantum mechanics. Traditional approaches to crisis analysis do not, in general, adequately represent event-based dependencies and the distribution of tail risks inherent in complex financial systems. The proposed approach is underwritten by a generic causal framework, which we think is suitable for financial analysis: we offer an index for financial stress and we explore its value in detecting extreme market co-movements, which may serve as an early crisis warning signal. Our analyses employ a rolling-window approach to analyze financial time series data. We utilize S&P 500 and STOXX Europe 600 stocks and consider three historical crises, namely the 2008 financial crisis, the EU debt crisis and the COVID-19 pandemic, which mark some of the largest downturns of financial markets in the last two decades. The findings demonstrate the framework's ability to align the number of observed Bell inequalities violations with observed peaks in market stress. In particular, the framework shows good performance against CDS spreads as a crisis indicator and is less erratic than the traditional Pearson correlation of price returns. It aligns well with implied equity option volatility as measured by VIX. Overall, we think the present causal framework has promising properties and merits further examination.. Bell inequalities; Financial crisis; Causal model; Market stress indicatord; Event-based correlation. INEQUALITY
Impact of COVID-19 on the Saudi stock market: analysis of return, volatility and trading volume. The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of the coronavirus health crisis (COVID-19) on the performance of the Saudi stock market, the Tadawul. Prices of the Tadawul All-Shares Index (TASI) and all sector indices are collected from December 2019 to end of July 2020. Analysis of the pandemic on the return and volatility is carried out using the GARCH (1, 1) model. The results show that the pandemic has a positive impact on the mean returns of all indices except for the REITS sector, but the impact is mostly insignificant. Analysis of the pandemic on the volatility shows that the TASI itself experienced lower volatility during the pandemic period but the impact is insignificant, while out of 21 sectors only 9 experienced significant impacts on volatility. Out of the 9 sectors, 5 experienced significantly increased volatility, while 4 experienced significantly lower volatility. Analysis of the impact of trading volume on the volatility shows stronger investor sentiment influencing volatility for the sectors that experienced higher volatility only. This study provides further understanding of how various market participants around the world react to the COVID-19 pandemic and the need for portfolio diversification to reduce risk during crisis periods.. COVID-19; GARCH model; Volatility; Market returns; Sentiments. INVESTOR SENTIMENT; TERRORIST ATTACKS; NEWS; NOISE
Cross-Country Analysis of the Impact of Covid-19 on Share Markets. The negative effects on the macroeconomic indicators of the countries during the pandemic process that started with the Covid 19 epidemic made it necessary for individuals, investors, institutions, and governments to create a new policy. To determine the right policies, the effects of Covid 19 on the country's economy have been the subject of research by scientists. This study, it is aimed to investigate the effect of the pandemic on the stock market together with its sub-sectors. For this reason, in this study, the volatility of BIST100, known as the Turkish Stock Exchange, and its sub- indices, finance, service, and industry indices during the pandemic process were investigated. Working day data obtained from the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey between 1/02/2020 10/11/2020 periods were used in the study. First, logarithmic transformation of the data was provided. Then, it was converted into a return series and included in the analysis.In order to obtain a consistent estimate, the series should not contain unit-roots. For this purpose, using the ADF unit root test, it was investigated whether the series contain unit root or not. According to the findings obtained from the study, it was determined that the most suitable variance model for BIST100 and Industrial indexes was the GARCH (1,1) model. It was found that the most suitable variance model in financial and services indices was the TARCH (1,1) model. In addition, while it is estimated that there is symmetrical volatility in BIST100 and Industrial indices, it is concluded that there are asymmetric and leverage effects in financial and services indices.. Stock Market; Pandemia; GARCH; TARCH
Intraday Price Discovery between Spot and Futures Markets of NIFTY 50: An Empirical Study during the Times of COVID-19. The current study investigates the intraday dynamics of futures and spot markets in India. By analyzing one-minute data of Nifty 50 and the associated futures index, the study finds that both the markets are cointegrated. The results of the VECM reveal that any disequilibrium between the spot and futures market is restored by the spot market. Granger causality tests reveal that the spot and futures markets have a bidirectional causal relationship. Common factor weights and Hasbrouck's information share (IS) reveal the greater role of the futures market in price discovery. Gonzalo and Granger's common factor model indicates that the permanent factor is made up of futures series only. Using the BEK-GARCH model, we found two-way volatility spillovers between the spot and futures markets. The futures market is found to have a greater impact in terms of volatility spillovers also. The findings of our research are relevant to investors, money managers, traders, and policymakers.. LEAD-LAG RELATIONSHIP; STOCK INDEX FUTURES; VOLATILITY SPILLOVERS; ERROR-CORRECTION; OPTIONS MARKETS; COINTEGRATION; CASH; DYNAMICS
Structural Breaks as Investment Signals: BFAST vs. CUSUM in Quitos Stock Market During COVID-19 Pandemic. This study investigates the potential of structural break detection in stock price time series as a tool for investment decision-making in emerging markets. Operating under the hypothesis that structural breaks reflect shifts in underlying price trends, we conduct an empirical analysis of investment performance in the Quito Stock Exchange (QSE) using monthly average prices from 2013 to 2022 for the ten most actively traded companies, selected for their transaction volume and sectoral representativeness. Importantly, this period coincided with the COVID-19 pandemic, providing a natural context to explore how structural breaks behave under heightened market volatility. Two algorithmsCUSUM and BFASTare applied and compared in terms of their ability to identify actionable breakpoints and generate profitable buy/sell signals. Results show that BFAST, originally developed for remote sensing applications, consistently outperforms CUSUM: it detects a higher proportion of successful signals, yields stronger average returns over a six-month evaluation window (+17% in the financial sector and+18.75% in the productive/commercial sector), and achieves superior risk-adjusted performance as measured by Sharperatios. Statistical validation using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test confirms the significance of BFASTs advantage (p = 0.004).Taken together, these findings position BFAST as a robust and economically relevant tool for financial time-series analysis, extending its utility beyond traditional domains and offering investors a methodologically sound framework for decision-making in volatile market environments.. Market research; Investment; Companies; Time series analysis; COVID-19; Pandemics; Economics; Stock markets; Decision making; Standards; BFAST; CUSUM; Time Series Analysis; Structural Break; Stock Markets. TESTS; PARAMETER; VOLATILITY; LANDSAT
COVID-19 media coverage and ESG leader indices. This study examines the dynamic connectedness between COVID-19 media coverage index (MCI) and ESG leader indices. Our findings provide evidence that MCI plays a role in facilitating the transmission of contagion to advanced and emerging equity markets during the pandemic. The connectedness between MCI and ESG leader indices is more pronounced around March and April 2020 at the peak of the pandemic. The US is a net receiver of shocks reaffirming that it was the most affected country during the pandemic. Our results provide implications for investors, portfolio managers, and policymakers in mitigating financial risks during the pandemic.. COVID-19; ESG leaders; Financial contagion; Media coverage index; TVP-VAR. IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; VOLATILITY SPILLOVERS; STOCK; CONNECTEDNESS; SENTIMENT; NETWORKS
Temporal Theil scaling in diffusive trajectory time series. Temporal fluctuation scaling (TFS) is a power-law relation between the variance (Xi) and the mean (Upsilon) which is present in cumulative time series Taking into account that Theil index (T) can be assumed as a measure of dispersion and considering diffusive trajectory time series, we find a power-law relation between T and Upsilon of the form T similar to (1 - c Upsilon)(beta), which we call temporal Theil scaling (TTS). Specifically, by analyzing data of volatility and absolute log-return for 24 nonstationary time series of financial markets, meteorology, and COVID-19 spread, we find that TTS is present in diffusive trajectory time series, while TFS is not present. Furthermore, we show that the power-law relation of TTS has a form that is similar to the relation between order parameter and temperature, which is found in the Ginzburg-Landau theory when the nontrivial critical points of an energy functional F-eta,F-delta containing arbitrary powers eta and delta of the order parameter are calculated.. INEQUALITY; FLUCTUATIONS; LAW
Will the Aviation Industry Have a Bright Future after the COVID-19 Outbreak? Evidence from Chinese Airport Shipping Sector. Due to the lockdown regulations worldwide during the COVID-19 pandemic, the global aviation industry has been severely hit. This study focuses on the volatility estimation of stock indexes in the Chinese Airport Shipping Set (ASS) at industry-enterprise levels and identifies possible business behavior that may cause fluctuating differences. Depending on the Generalized Autoregressive Conditional Heteroskedasticity (GARCH) model, text mining method and Word Cloud Views, results show that (1) the holistic volatility of Airport Shipping Set Index (ASSI) increases relative to the pre-COVID period; (2) volatility of airport stocks has crucial differences, while the volatility of shipping stocks is similar; (3) there are different responses to the pandemic between Shenzhen Airport and Shanghai Airport shown in their semiannual financial reports. Compared to the latter, the former had a more positive attitude and took various measures to mitigate risks, providing evidence of the volatility differences between firms.. COVID-19; financial risk management; stock price returns; stock volatility; airline industry; at industry-enterprise levels
Investigating the impact of COVID-19 pandemic on volatility patterns and its global implication for textile industry: An empirical case study for Shanghai Stock Exchange of China. This research paper aims to examine the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on volatility patterns and its global implication for the textile industry in China. The COVID-19 pandemic has generated a global health crisis with profound economic, social and financial implications, but also has triggered a ruthless global recession. The global economic recovery as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic can also generate significant investment opportunities for the textile industry in China. In this paper, the application of empirical methods could explain historical prices, the movement dynamics of financial assets, and investigate various important characteristics of asset pricing that explore details of the Chinese stock market. The econometric framework includes the following: symmetric Generalize Autoregressive Conditional Heteroscedastic GARCH (1, 1) model, asymmetric GARCH models such as EGARCH and GJR models. The main aim is to identify the asymmetric volatility effect, and impact of news on the SSE Composite Index and investigate long memory properties in volatility using daily data for the sample period from 19th December 1990 to 31st December 2020. This empirical study contributes to the existing literature on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on international stock markets, by investigating symmetric and asymmetric volatility patterns in the case of the Shanghai Stock Exchange from China.. GARCH family models; symmetric volatility; asymmetric volatility; COVID-19 pandemic; apparel; textile industry; economic recession; leverage effect. RETURNS
Volatility Spillovers and Network Connectedness Among Saudi Stock Market Sectors. Despite the growing importance of the Saudi capital market, sectoral-level volatility connectedness within Tadawul remains largely unexplored. This study contributes to the literature by applying the Diebold-Y & imath;lmaz framework to examine volatility connectedness across 16 Tadawul sectors over the period January 2017 to December 2024. Total, directional, and net pairwise volatility spillovers are quantified from daily closing prices using a VAR(4) model combined with generalized forecast error variance decomposition. The static analysis reveals a high overall connectedness of 80.49%, indicating that cross-sectoral spillovers account for the majority of volatility fluctuations. Materials, Transportation, and Real Estate Management and Development are identified as the dominant net transmitters of volatility, while Utilities and Telecommunication Services are persistent net receivers. The dynamic analysis shows that sectoral connectedness is highly time-varying, peaking at 93.70% during the COVID-19 period, with additional episodes of elevated spillovers during 2022-2023. The network analysis reveals that the strongest pairwise linkages exist among Materials, Transportation, Real Estate Management and Development, and Banks, forming the core of the spillover network. While block-bootstrap results reinforce the identification of dominant net transmitters and receivers, they reveal substantial uncertainty in the rank-order of intermediate sectors, necessitating a more nuanced interpretation. The results are robust to alternative rolling window sizes and forecast horizons. These findings have important implications for portfolio diversification, sectoral risk monitoring, and macroprudential policy in the Saudi capital market.. volatility spillovers; sectoral connectedness; Diebold-Y & imath;lmaz approach; Saudi stock market; Tadawul; Vision 2030; emerging markets; financial connectedness; rolling window; network analysis. IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS
Rare Disaster Events, Growth Volatility, and Financial Liberalization: International Evidence. Purpose - This paper elucidates a nexus between the occurrence of rare disaster events and the volatility of economic growth by distinguishing the likelihood of rare events from stochastic volatility. We provide new empirical facts based on a quarterly time series. In particular, we focus on the role of financial liberalization in spreading the economic crisis in developing countries. Design/methodology - We use quarterly data on consumption expenditure (real per capita consump-tion) from 44 countries, including advanced and developing countries, ending in the fourth quarter of 2020. We estimate the likelihood of rare event occurrences and stochastic volatility for countries using the Bayesian Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) method developed by Barro and Jin (2021). We present our estimation results for the relationship between rare disaster events, stochastic volatility, and growth volatility. Findings - We find the global common disaster event, the COVID-19 pandemic, and thirteen country-specific disaster events. Consumption falls by about 7% on average in the first quarter of a disaster and by 4% in the long run. The occurrence of rare disaster events and the volatility of gross domestic product (GDP) growth are positively correlated (4.8%), whereas the rare events and GDP growth rate are negatively correlated (-12.1%). In particular, financial liberalization has played an important role in exacerbating the adverse impact of both rare disasters and financial market instability on growth volatility. Several case studies, including the case of South Korea, provide insights into the cause of major financial crises in small open developing countries, including the Asian currency crisis of 1998. Originality/value - This paper presents new empirical facts on the relationship between the occurrence of rare disaster events (or stochastic volatility) and growth volatility. Increasing data frequency allows for greater accuracy in assessing a country's specific risk. Our findings suggest that financial market and institutional stability can be vital for buffering against rare disaster shocks. It is necessary to preemptively strengthen the foundation for financial stability in developing countries and increase the quality of the information provided to markets.. Bayesian MCMC; Financial Liberalization; Growth Volatility; Rare Disaster Events; Stochastic Volatility. LONG-RUN; CRISES; RISK
Bayesian neural networks for stock price forecasting before and during COVID-19 pandemic. Recently, there has been much attention in the use of machine learning methods, particularly deep learning for stock price prediction. A major limitation of conventional deep learning is uncertainty quantification in predictions which affect investor confidence. Bayesian neural networks feature Bayesian inference for providing inference (training) of model parameters that provides a rigorous methodology for uncertainty quantification in predictions. Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) sampling methods have been prominent in implementing inference of Bayesian neural networks; however certain limitations existed due to a large number of parameters and the need for better computational resources. Recently, there has been much progress in the area of Bayesian neural networks given the use of Langevin gradients with parallel tempering MCMC that can be implemented in a parallel computing environment. The COVID-19 pandemic had a drastic impact in the world economy and stock markets given different levels of lockdowns due to rise and fall of daily infections. It is important to investigate the performance of related forecasting models during the COVID-19 pandemic given the volatility in stock markets. In this paper, we use novel Bayesian neural networks for multi-step-ahead stock price forecasting before and during COVID-19. We also investigate if the pre-COVID-19 datasets are useful of modelling stock price forecasting during COVID-19. Our results indicate due to high volatility in the stock-price during COVID-19, it is more challenging to provide forecasting. However, we found that Bayesian neural networks could provide reasonable predictions with uncertainty quantification despite high market volatility during the first peak of the COVID-19 pandemic.. PREDICTION; MARKET
Does investors' sentiment influence stockmarket volatility? Evidence from Indiaduring pre- and post-Covid-19 periods. This research empirically investigates the impact of investor sentiment on equitymarket volatility during periods of economic turbulence, with a focus on theCovid-19 pandemic. Daily data from the Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Indexand proxies for investor sentiment from November 23, 2017 to March 31, 2022 is col-lected and split into pre- and post-Covid-19 periods. To quantify investor sentiment,a comprehensive sentiment index is developed using principal component analy-sis. The study employs generalized autoregressive conditional heteroscedasticity(GARCH), threshold GARCH and exponential GARCH models to evaluate the influ-ence of sentiment on stock market volatility. These models enable the assessment ofhow positive news and negative news affect volatility differently, considering theirasymmetric impacts. The results of the analysis highlight the significant influence ofinvestor sentiment on volatility, particularly during the post-Covid-19 period. Postpandemic, volatility shocks are found to be more persistent and enduring, indicating heightened market instability. Negative news has a more pronounced impact onvolatility than positive news of equivalent magnitude. This disparity can be attributedto the widespread concern, fear and uncertainty prevalent during the post-Covid-19period, which contributed to the increase in market volatility. sentiment index; principal component analysis; stock market volatility; generalizedautoregressive conditional heteroscedasticity (GARCH); Covid-19. MARKET; IMPACT; RETURNS; RISK
How COVID-19 has affected stock market persistence? Evidence from the G7's. This paper examines how COVID-19 pandemic has affected volatility persistence in the G7's stock markets. Based on daily data we divided the whole sample into two sub-samples according to its breakpoints and found that they occurred right after the declaration of COVID-19 pandemic by the World Health Organization - WHO (2020). This approach allows us to assess the main differences between these two distinct phases. Thus, while the first sub-period is relatively calm, the second one, which coincides with the pandemic outbreak, shows higher levels of volatility. Considering this, we rely on GARCH-type models to assess the degree of persistence of volatility and to evaluate how it has evolved across sub-samples. Our results show that the FIGARCH(1,d,1) is the best model to describe the data and that the degree of persistence is very different from the first to the second sub-sample. Thus, while the pre-pandemic period exhibits lower levels of persistence it has greatly increased with the COVID-19 outbreak. In particular, S&P 500 and FTSE/MIB became the most persistent indices in contrast to NIKKEI 225 and FTSE 100, which were amongst the least persistent. (C) 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.. COVID-19; Volatility; Persistence; Conditional variance; G7; FIGARCH. TIME-SERIES; LONG MEMORY; VOLATILITY; EXCHANGE; CRISIS; MODELS
Permanent and Transitory Volatility Spillovers Between Conventional and Islamic Stock Indices During the SARS-CoV-2 Pandemic. This study examines the existence and nature of volatility spillovers between conventional and Islamic stocks indices in the context of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic. By augmenting the Hafner and Herwartz methodology with the integration of Fourier terms in the test equations, we identify both unidirectional and bidirectional volatility spillovers, predominantly of a permanent nature, across these indices. The results suggest that the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic has challenged the traditional perception of Islamic stocks as safe havens. The robustness tests, incorporating the traditional Hafner and Herwartz and frequency domain causality tests, confirm the validity of our main findings by demonstrating that volatility spillovers between Islamic and conventional stock markets are persistent across 27 out of 38 countries, with the Fourier-augmented Hafner and Herwartz test providing superior detection of spillovers compared to traditional methods. The study has significant implications for individual investors, market professionals and policymakers, underscoring the need for caution when considering safe havens during periods of market instability.. augmented Hafner and Herwartz causality-in-variance test; conventional stock indices; Islamic stock indices; SARS-CoV-2; volatility spillovers. FINANCIAL CRISIS EVIDENCE; MARKETS; RISK; CAUSALITY; TRANSMISSION; CONTAGION; INDUSTRY; IMPACT; RETURN
Default risk transmission in the travel and leisure industry. Default risk in the Travel and Leisure (T & L) industry remains understudied despite its implications for the industry's health and stability. This paper investigates the transmission of default risk among US T & L firms over various credit horizons from July 22, 2008 to December 9, 2022, paying special attention to the impact of COVID-19. The short-, medium-, and long-term default risk factors are extracted from the Credit Default Spread (CDS) curve of the US T & L industry then used within a connectedness approach. The results reveal considerable default risk transmission, particularly in the long-term. Default risk transmission has spiked across all horizons since the pandemic, reflecting the deterioration in credit quality of T & L firms under the pandemic. Analysis of the drivers of default risk transmission shows that several macro-financial variables, especially news market sentiment and stock market volatility induced by the pandemic, have an important explanatory role.. Default risk transmission; COVID-19; Credit Default Spread (CDS) curve; Connectedness approach; US Travel and Leisure industry. ECONOMIC-POLICY UNCERTAINTY; IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; SOVEREIGN CONTAGION; TERM STRUCTURE; CDS; IMPACTS; STOCK
Investor Sentiment and Stock Returns During the COVID-19 Pandemic. In this paper, we regard the Baidu index as an indicator of investors' attention to China's epidemic stocks. We believe that when seeking information to guide investment decisions, investor sentiment is usually affected by the information provided by the Baidu search engine, which may cause stock prices to fluctuate. Therefore, we constructed a GARCH extended model including the Baidu index to predict the return of epidemic stocks and compared it with the benchmark model. The empirical research in this paper finds that the forecast model including the Baidu index is significantly better than the benchmark model. This has important reference value both for investors in predicting stock trends and for the government's formulation of policies to prevent excessive stock market volatility.. Baidu index; google trends; investor sentiment; epidemic stocks; forecast. SEARCH
The impact of COVID-19 on the volatility connectedness of the Chinese tourism sector. This paper investigates the dynamic behaviour of the volatility connectedness of COVID-19-related stock indices on Chinese tourism sub-sectors using a novel TVP-VAR frequency approach of Chatziantoniou et al. (2021). Our empirical results show that COVID-19 affects all six examined tourism sub-sectors, but the volatility transmissions between COVID-19 and each tourism sector are not uniform. Different waves of COVID-19 have contributed to time-varying changes of volatility connectedness to all tourism sectors. Our results will be of great interest and importance to policymakers and investors, who will better understand developments in China's tourism sectors under extreme financial shocks and learn how to better manage risk considering potential future epidemics and pandemics.. COVID-19; China; Tourism; TVP-VAR; Stock markets. CRISIS MANAGEMENT; SPILLOVERS; RESILIENCE
Impact of climate change on dynamic tail-risk connectedness among stock market social sectors: Evidence from the US, Europe, and China. This paper studies the impact of climate change risk (including physical and transition risk) on the tail-risk connectedness among ten stock market social sectors in the US, Europe and China. To this end, we first combine ARMA-GJR-GARCH models with a time-varying parameter autoregression (TVP-VAR) approach to examine the transmission of tail-risk among sectors. Then, we use predictive regression models to examine the contribution of climate change to tail-risk spillovers. Over the sample period from January 2013 to September 2023, we obtain two main results. First, the COVID-19 epidemic has resulted in significantly greater losses for social sectors in the US and Europe than for those in China. Additionally, the industrial sector is a common source of tail-risk shocks across all three economies. Second, physical risk contributes to higher overall and directional tail-risk connectedness, while an increase in transition risk has the opposite effect on both. However, the impact of physical and transition risk on the net tail-risk connectedness for each sector shows both positive and negative effects. Our findings indicate that physical and transition risk have different effects on tail-risk connectedness among social sectors.. Climate change; Physical risk; Transition risk; Tail-risk connectedness; TVP-VAR; VaR. IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; NATURAL DISASTERS; FINANCIAL FRAGILITY; VOLATILITY
Stock price index prediction based on SSA-BiGRU-GSCV model from the perspective of long memory. PurposeBecause the dynamic characteristics of the stock market are nonlinear, it is unclear whether stock prices can be predicted. This paper aims to explore the predictability of the stock price index from a long-memory perspective. The authors propose hybrid models to predict the next-day closing price index and explore the policy effects behind stock prices. The paper aims to discuss the aforementioned ideas.Design/methodology/approachThe authors found a long memory in the stock price index series using modified R/S and GPH tests, and propose an improved bi-directional gated recurrent units (BiGRU) hybrid network framework to predict the next-day stock price index. The proposed framework integrates (1) A de-noising module-Singular Spectrum Analysis (SSA) algorithm, (2) a predictive module-BiGRU model, and (3) an optimization module-Grid Search Cross-validation (GSCV) algorithm.FindingsThree critical findings are long memory, fit effectiveness and model optimization. There is long memory (predictability) in the stock price index series. The proposed framework yields predictions of optimum fit. Data de-noising and parameter optimization can improve the model fit.Practical implicationsThe empirical data are obtained from the financial data of listed companies in the Wind Financial Terminal. The model can accurately predict stock price index series, guide investors to make reasonable investment decisions, and provide a basis for establishing individual industry stock investment strategies.Social implicationsIf the index series in the stock market exhibits long-memory characteristics, the policy implication is that fractal markets, even in the nonlinear case, allow for a corresponding distribution pattern in the value of portfolio assets. The risk of stock price volatility in various sectors has expanded due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and the R-U conflict on the stock market. Predicting future trends by forecasting stock prices is critical for minimizing financial risk. The ability to mitigate the epidemic's impact and stop losses promptly is relevant to market regulators, companies and other relevant stakeholders.Originality/valueAlthough long memory exists, the stock price index series can be predicted. However, price fluctuations are unstable and chaotic, and traditional mathematical and statistical methods cannot provide precise predictions. The network framework proposed in this paper has robust horizontal connections between units, strong memory capability and stronger generalization ability than traditional network structures. The authors demonstrate significant performance improvements of SSA-BiGRU-GSCV over comparison models on Chinese stocks.. Stock price index prediction; Long memory; Bi-directional gated recurrent unit; Singular spectrum analysis; Grid search cross-validation. VOLATILITY; SPECTRUM
Connecting the stocks of major energy firms in China to identify the systemic risk. This study mainly identifies systemic risks among energy firm stocks. By using a financial network approach on 198 major energy firms in China, the study finds that energy firms are accompanied with systemic risk due to extensive stock return and stock risk connections. Return connection is less severe and long-lasting than risk connection, but they are all buffeted to varying degrees by economic activities, such as stock market volatility, energy policy, and public event like COVID-19. Structural analysis further finds that heterogeneity and asymmetry exist in energy firms' bidirectional ability of price and risk information processing; relatively extreme asymmetry cases can be observed from risk connection ability. Multiple centrality indicators screen out some systemically important energy firms from exchanges of both return and risk information. All these characteristics could provide implications for policy making, corporate response, and portfolio construction.. Energy firms; Systemic risk; Financial connection; Centrality indicator. IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; CONNECTEDNESS; PRICES
Do Socially Responsible Indices Outperform the Market During Black Swan Events: Evidence from Indian Markets During Global Financial and COVID-19 Crises. This paper aims to examine and compare the effect of black swan events on the performance of companies with strong Environmental, Social, and (Corporate) Governance (ESG) backgrounds with that of other companies. Compared to established firms, companies with ESG backgrounds are perceived to be stable that will help them outperform established companies that are volatile during times of crisis. This research focuses on SENSEX for conventional market index and BSE GREEENEX and S & P BSE CARBONEX for ESG indices. We evaluated performances of the three indices during U.S. Debt Ceiling Crisis (2011-12), Black Monday China, BREXIT and Demonetization (2015-16), and COVID-19 (2020) crisis. We checked whether ESG indices outperformed conventional index significantly using Student's T-test. We have also compared the volatility of the three indices during the different black swan periods using the GARCH model.. Socially responsible investing; ESG; Student's T-test; ARCH; GARCH; performance; GREENEX; SENSEX; CARBONEX. PERFORMANCE; STOCKS; RISK
Risk spillovers and extreme risk between e-commerce and logistics markets in China. We first utilized the Bayes positive diagonal BEKK generalized autoregressive conditional heteroskedasticity (Bayes-pdBEKK-GARCH) model to evaluate the risk spillovers between the ecommerce and logistics, then applied the adaptive Fourier decomposition method to measure the extent of these spillovers and detect structural changes. The results showed that there were structural breaks in both markets, which may lead to extreme risks. At last, we applied the GARCH-copula quantile regression model to analyze the extreme risks. We found that: (1) there were asymmetric volatility spillovers and positive correlations between them. (2) The dynamic risk spillovers exhibited heterogeneity over time. The logistics market had a smaller downside risk spillover, while the ecommerce market had a stronger upside risk spillover. (3) The study indicated that important events, such as the Chinese stock market crash, the Sino-U.S. trade friction, the COVID-19 epidemic, and the either-or choice monopoly policy of e-commerce platforms, had a significant influence on them, resulting in dramatic risk spillovers.. e-commerce; logistics; risk spillover; Bayes-pdBEKK-GARCH model; adaptive Fourier decomposition; GARCH-Copula quantile regression model. VOLATILITY; ALGORITHM; MODEL
The Dynamic Connectedness between Risk and Return in the Fintech Market of India: Evidence Using the GARCH-M Approach. Fintech allows investors to explore previously unavailable investment opportunities; it provides new return opportunities while also introducing new risks. The aim of this study is to investigate the relationship between risk and return in the fintech industry in the Indian stock market. This article is based on market-based research that focuses on demonstrating the volatility in the fintech market's prices and demystifying the opportunities. Secondary data were collected from the Bombay Stock Exchange's official fintech industry website from January 2017 to July 2022 to determine whether there is any dynamic link between risk and return in the Indian fintech market. The variance-based Mean-GARCH (GARCH-M) model was used to determine whether there is a dynamic link between risk and return in the Indian fintech market. The findings emphasize the importance of taking the risk of investing in India's fintech industry. The implications for stock investors' and fund managers' portfolio composition and holding periods of equities or market exposure are significant. Finally, depending on their investment horizons, the Indian fintech industry may yield significant profits for risk-taking individuals.. fintech; risk; return; investments; variance-based Mean-GARCH (GARCH-M) model; dynamic connectedness. VOLATILITY MARKETS; STOCK; INTEGRATION; INVESTMENT; LINKAGES; COVID-19; TRADE
Firm-level business uncertainty and the predictability of the aggregate US stock market volatility during the COVID-19 pandemic. In this paper, we analyze the predictive role of firm-level business expectations and uncertainties derived from a panel survey of U.S. 1750 business executives from 50 states for the realized variance (sum of daily squared log-returns over a month) of the S&P500 index over the monthly period of September 2016 to July 2021. Unlike standard models, our predictive framework adopts a time-varying approach due to the existence of multiple structural breaks in the relationship between volatility and the predictors in the model, which in turn leads to statistically insignificant causal effects in a constant parameter set-up. Our timevarying results suggest that the predictive power of firm-level business uncertainty is concentrated during the early part of the sample associated with the U.S.-China trade war and towards the end of our data coverage in the wake of the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. Since in-sample predictability does not guarantee the same over an out-sample, we also conducted a full-fledged forecasting exercise to show that subjective expectations and uncertainties associated with sales growth rates and employment produce statistically significant predictability gains over January 2020 to July 2021, given an in-sample of September 2016 to December 2019. Our results suggest that subjective measures of business uncertainty at the firm level indeed capture predictive information regarding aggregate stock market uncertainty, which has important implications for investors and economic projections at the policy level.(c) 2023 Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.. S& P500 realized variance; Firm -level expectations and uncertainties; Time -varying predictability. STATES; RETURN
Sub-prime Crisis or COVID-19: A Comparative Analysis of Volatility in Indian Banking Sectoral Indices. Stock market volatility may be a function of company, industry, or world over information made public. The present study has investigated the volatility of Indian banking sectoral indices with the general banking index for two shocking events: the Sub-prime crisis and COVID-19. A comparative analysis of both the shocks leading to these indices' volatility has been conducted using symmetric and asymmetric models. This study's findings show that these indices' volatile behaviour has been strong enough to persist in the market with the leverage effect present during the sub-prime crisis. This effect disappeared for Nifty Bank Indices and Private Sector Bank Indices as compared to Public Sector Undertaking Bank Indices during COVID-19 (probably because the pandemic is not over yet). With GARCH and EGARCH models, the study suggests that the investors may use the diversification approach, in the long run, to safeguard their portfolio values to survive from global shocks.. Sub-prime; COVID-19; volatility; banking; public; private. GLOBAL FINANCIAL CRISIS; STOCK-EXCHANGE; SPILLOVER; MARKET; US; BRICS
Shock transmissions and business linkages among US sectors. This paper examines the shock spillovers between US sectors and their dependence on the intersectoral business linkages. Our forecast error variance decompositions reveal significant shock transmissions among trading sectors, especially in turbulent periods such as the financial crisis and the COVID-19 pandemic. The dymamics of shock spillovers reflect the impacts of the pandemic on economic sectors. Shock spillovers are shown to be influenced by the strength of the intersectoral trading relationships. Shocks to a sector's important supplier have a strong impact on the forecast error variance of the sector's stock return. The total directional spillovers from/ to a sector are linked with the number of close commercial linkages between that sector and other sectors.. Asset pricing; Stock market; Shock transmission; Variance decomposition; Connectedness; Input-output linkage. IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; VOLATILITY SPILLOVERS; CROSS-PREDICTABILITY; CONNECTEDNESS; RETURN; DYNAMICS; RISK
An empirical investigation of return spillover and volatility dynamics of Indian sectoral indices. This research delves into the interconnectedness and volatility dynamics within sectoral indices amid the COVID-19 pandemic, to determine the most appropriate model for elucidating these dynamics. It addresses the burgeoning interest among investors in comprehending sectoral dynamics within India's stock markets. Leveraging five years of daily closing price data (April 2017 to December 2021) sourced from the National Stock Exchange's official website for 16 sectoral indices and the Nifty50 index, the study employs the Diebold-Yilmaz Spillover 2012 framework alongside four GARCH models (E-GARCH, T-GARCH, FIE-GARCH, and FE-GARCH). Empirical analysis underscores that the mid-small financial sector is the riskiest sector among others, advocating for the inclusion of the pharmaceutical sector to mitigate portfolio risks. Furthermore, the research underscores the persistence of volatility across sectors and identifies the TGARCH model as the appropriate model to capture the volatility for most sectoral indices.. volatility spillover; GARCH models; sectoral indices; COVID-19; G01; G10; G11; G19. MODEL
Quantile connectedness between social network sentiment and sustainability index volatility: Evidence from the Moroccan financial market. The goal of this paper is to investigate the connectedness between investor sentiment and volatility on the environmental, social, and governance index (ESG) in Morocco. Therefore, on the basis of an investor sentiment index constructed from the X platform, and using quantile and frequency connectedness approaches, the findings reveal a significant connectedness between sentiment and ESG volatility, particularly during turbulent events. Although sentiment acts most of the time as a net receiver of shocks, notably during the COVID-19 pandemic and geopolitical crises, it sometimes becomes a net sender of shocks. Furthermore, the spillovers between sentiment and ESG volatility are determined mainly by the long-term component, especially during extreme events, implying the persistence of shock transmission due to high uncertainty. The results also illustrate the impact of market conditions on the spillovers between sentiment and ESG volatility. The conclusions of this study provide useful guidance for pro-ESG investors, policymakers, and companies.. COVID-19; ESG; frequency spillovers; quantile connectedness; sustainability. IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; PERFORMANCE; UNCERTAINTY; SEARCH
The Impact of COVID-19 Pandemic on the Jordanian Stock Market Returns Volatility: Evidence from ASE20. This research examines the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the volatility behavior of Amman Stock Exchange (ASE) returns using ARMA-GARCH-type models for three sub-periods: pre-COVID-19, during COVID-19, and post-COVID-19. The research finds that volatility persistence is significant across all periods, with the pandemic period showing the highest impact of shocks. Bad news has no statistically significant impact on volatility in the pre-COVID-19 period or during the pandemic, while in the post-pandemic period, good news significantly influences volatility. Additionally, there exist notable changes in the autocorrelation and the shock structure of the AR and MA components. Considering these alterations in the asymmetric effects, the AR and MA components suggest significant shifts in market dynamics, investor sentiments, and economic policies in response to pandemic experiences.. COVID-19 pandemic; stock returns volatility; ARCH-type model; Amman Stock Exchange; Jordan. AUTOREGRESSIVE TIME-SERIES; CRASH
Asymmetric thresholds of macroeconomic volatility's impact on stock volatility in developing economies: a study in Vietnam. PurposeThis paper examines the impact of macroeconomic volatility on stock volatility, both under normal conditions and during the COVID-19 pandemic in Vietnam.Design/methodology/approachWe extend the existing Exponential Generalized Autoregressive Conditional Heteroskedasticity model by adding a new component: the thresholds - the levels of macroeconomic volatility at which the market may respond differently. These thresholds are estimated for both positive and negative volatility.FindingsThe impact of macroeconomic volatility on stock volatility is asymmetric: there are thresholds of macroeconomic volatility at which its pattern changes. These thresholds are higher in the case of positive volatility compared with negative volatility. The thresholds were also higher during the COVID-19 pandemic. Macroeconomic variables influence stock volatility differently depending on market conditions. While GDP is more significant in normal periods, interest rates affect it in both normal and unstable phases.Research limitations/implicationsOur models consider only two variables representing macroeconomic variables: interest rate and GDP. Furthermore, only one lag period of the variables is included in the analysis. In the future, more macrovariables and longer lags could be included when computational techniques advance.Practical implicationsPolicymakers should consider the impact of macroeconomic volatility on the stock market when designing policies, especially at thresholds. Similarly, investors should pay more attention to macroeconomic volatility when constructing and managing their portfolios, particularly when such volatility is close to thresholds.Originality/valueThe inclusion of thresholds as parameters to be estimated into the model provides more insights into the impact of macroeconomic variables on stock volatility.. Asymmetric threshold; COVID-19 pandemic; EGARCH; Macroeconomic volatility; Stock market volatility. MARKET VOLATILITY
Artificial intelligence and firm resilience. We investigate the role of Artificial Intelligence (AI) on firms' resilience to the COVID-19 crisis. We show that firms that adopted AI technology before the crisis (AI-adopters) exhibit higher stock returns during the peak of the crisis than non-AI-adopters. This cross-sectional finding also holds in a difference-in-differences setting. Having AI patents is also associated with higher stock returns regardless of the firm adopting AI. We further provide evidence that heterogeneity in AI adoption matters; specifically, our main finding is driven primarily by machine learning. Moreover, AI-adopters exhibit lower stock volatility during the peak of the crisis compared to non-AI-adopters. The resilience that AI adoption brings is also reflected in other firm indicators, such as operating performance and firm valuation. Finally, we find that neither firm ownership nor firm size seems to moderate the relationship between AI adoption and firm stock returns.. Artificial intelligence; Stock market; COVID-19; Patents; Performance. CORPORATE SOCIAL-RESPONSIBILITY; MULTIPLE LARGE SHAREHOLDERS; RARE DISASTERS; PERFORMANCE; INNOVATION; COVID-19; BUSINESS; INDUSTRY; MODELS; RISK
Do investors herd in a volatile market? Evidence of dynamic herding in Taiwan, China, and US stock markets. This article investigates whether investors exhibit herd behavior in a high market volatility state. A modified herding model with the Kalman filter and GARCH methodology is used to estimate the time-variation herding corresponding to each influential event. Our proposed model provides comprehensive results for the relationship between investor herding and the market state, which has been argued in the previous literature. We find that investors indeed herd in volatile markets, including the 2001 dot.com bubble and the 2009 global financial crisis. However, in recent years, anti-herding is prevalent and herding is slight even in turbulent markets, such as the 2020 Covid-19 pandemic.. CSAD; Herd behavior; Kalman filter. BEHAVIOR
Dividend policy, its asymmetric behavior and stock liquidity. Purpose This paper examines the impact of dividend policy on stock market liquidity, and whether the dividend payouts has an asymmetric effect on stock liquidity. Design/methodology/approach A multivariate panel-data regression analysis is conducted for a sample of the largest 411 nonfinancial US firms. Three main hypothesis are tested: (1) whether dividend payouts impact affect stock liquidity, (2) whether low and high dividend payments can asymmetrically effect on stock liquidity and (3) whether the presence of the GFC has an impact the relationship between dividend payments and stock liquidity. Findings The study finds that dividend policy is adversely associated with stock liquidity. This supports the prediction of the liquidity-dividend hypothesis. The authors also report that stock liquidity asymmetrically responds to changes in dividend payouts, confirming the prediction of the dividend-signaling approach. More specifically, higher dividend payments decrease stock liquidity by a lower magnitude than the increase in stock liquidity resulting from lower dividend payments. Finally, the presence of the GFC weakened the relationship between dividend payments and stock liquidity. Research limitations/implications The paper can help in performing future research by using different dataset covering the COVID-19 crisis. Practical implications The paper allows market participants to better understand the impact of dividend policy and its asymmetric effects on stock liquidity. The authors' analyses can direct investors and regulators to adopt new supervisory devices to create an appropriate level of dividend payouts that helps to effectively support the level of stock liquidity. Social implications The paper intends to support the business community and to make strong contributions to the economic development and the welfare of the community. Originality/value The originality comes from its new evidence as it can help in assessing the importance of dividend policy and its asymmetric impact on stock liquidity in the full sample and during the GFC. The paper is helpful in performing future analyses using a new sample period for another set of data as well as accounting for COVID-19 pandemic crisis.. Payout policy; Asymmetric behavior; Financial crisis; Stock market liquidity; D82; G01; G35; G14; G12. UNIT-ROOT TESTS; TIME-SERIES; MARKET LIQUIDITY; VOLATILITY; RETURNS; INFORMATION; EARNINGS; SHOCKS; IMPACT; COSTS
On systemic risk contagion in the euro area: Evidence from frequency connectedness and the DY approaches. This study analyzes systemic risk contagion across the euro area by employing the Diebold-Yilmaz and the frequency connectedness methodologies with data from January 1, 1999, to January 25, 2021. We use the daily Composite Indicator of Systemic Stress (CISS) series for 11 countries in the euro area developed by Hollo = et al. (2012) and calculate the overall connectedness between the series by employing two pioneering approaches. Additionally, we estimate the short-, medium-, and long-cycle connectedness of systemic risk over the study period that covers three financial burst periods: the global financial crisis (GFC), the European sovereign debt crisis (ESDC), and the COVID-19 pandemic. Overall, spillover indexes notably rise around well-known financial/geopolitical events over the study period. Finally, we examine the network connectedness of systemic risk spillovers during the GFC, the ESDC, and COVID-19 periods and thereby compare them. Our results highlight an efficient regulatory mechanism to control systemic risk contagion. Copyright (c) 2021, Borsa _Istanbul Anonim S , irketi. Production and hosting by Elsevier B.V.. Connectedness network; Financial connectedness; Frequency connectedness; Spillovers; Systemic risk. GLOBAL FINANCIAL CRISIS; VOLATILITY SPILLOVERS; CO-MOVEMENT; STOCK MARKETS; ASIA-PACIFIC; US; RETURN; INTEGRATION; INTERDEPENDENCE; DYNAMICS
Markov Switching Garch Models: Higher Order Moments, Kurtosis Measures, and Volatility Evaluation in Recessions and Pandemic. In this article, we derive neat matrix formulas in closed form for computing higher order moments and kurtosis of univariate Markov switching GARCH models. Then we provide asymptotic theory for sample estimators of higher order moments and kurtosis which can be used for testing normality. We also check our theory statements numerically via Monte Carlo simulations. Finally, we take advantage of our theoretical results to recognize different periods of high volatility stressing the stock markets, such as financial crisis and pandemic.. GARCH; Geometric ergodicity; Higher order moments; Kurtosis measures; Markov switching; Stationarity; Testing for normality; Volatility indices. TIME-SERIES; CONDITIONAL HETEROSKEDASTICITY
Network Analysis of Volatility Spillovers Between Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Rating Stocks: Evidence from China. In the globalized economic system, environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors have emerged as critical dimensions for assessing non-financial performance and ensuring the long-term sustainable development of businesses, influencing corporate behavior, investor expectations, and regulatory landscapes. This article applies the VAR-DY network analysis method to construct a large-scale financial volatility spillover network covering all Chinese stocks. It explores the risk transmission paths among different ESG-rated groups and analyzes the patterns and impacts of risk transmission during extreme market volatility. The study finds that as ESG ratings decrease from AAA to C, the network's average shortest path length and average connectedness strength decreases, indicating that highly rated companies play a central role in the network and maintain their ESG ratings through close connections, positively affecting market stability. However, analyses of the 2015 Chinese stock market crash and the COVID-19 pandemic show a general increase in volatility spillover effects. Notably, the direction of risk spillover in relation to ESG ratings was opposite in these two events, reflecting differences in the underlying drivers of market volatility. This suggests that under extreme market conditions, traditional risk management tools need to be optimized by incorporating ESG factors to better address risk contagion.. volatility spillover; ESG; VAR-DY; network analysis; topology measure. INVESTOR SENTIMENT; MARKET; CONTAGION; CRISIS
Forecasting FinTech stock index under multiple market uncertainties. This paper proposes an innovative CPO-VMD-PConv-Informer framework to forecast the KBW Nasdaq Financial Technology Index (KFTX). The framework comprehensively incorporates the effects of eight representative uncertainty indicators on KFTX price forecasting, including the Economic Policy Uncertainty Index (EPU) and the Geopolitical Risk Index (GPR). The empirical findings are as follows: (1) The proposed CPO-VMD-PConv-Informer framework demonstrates superior forecasting performance across the entire sample period, achieving R2 values of 0.9681 and 0.9757, significantly outperforming other commonly used traditional machine learning and deep learning models. (2) By integrating VMD decomposition and CPO optimization, the model effectively enhances its adaptability to extreme market volatility, maintaining stable forecasting accuracy even under structural shocks such as the COVID-19 outbreak in 2020. (3) SHAP analysis demonstrates that TM constituted the predominant determinant influencing FinTech index forecasting results during the pre-COVID-19 period, while FSI emerged as the principal driving force in the post-pandemic era, effectively supplanting TM's previously dominant predictive role. (4) Robustness tests show that the proposed model consistently delivers strong forecasting performance across different training-testing data splits (9:1, 8:2, and 6:4), with the MAPE remaining below 2%. These findings provide methodological advancements for forecasting in the KFTX market, offering both theoretical value and practical significance.. Forecasting; KBW Nasdaq Financial Technology Index (KFTX); Multiple uncertainties; Deep learning; SHAP
COVID-19's Impact on the Travel & Leisure Indices: Volatility Spillover Analysis. The travel and leisure sector is extremely sensitive to fluctuations in economic circumstances, consumer demand, and market volatility. This sector has been greatly affected by the COVID-19 pandemic due to both travel restrictions and social distancing measures that have limited demand. This study aims to examine the impact of COVID-19 on the volatility spillovers of travel and leisure indices in nine significant markets. It examines the differences in spillover effects pre- and during COVID-19, employing comparative analysis. The results show that the pandemic has led to an increase in volatility spillover between travel and leisure indices. Moreover, significant changes are evident in the spillover effects between periods, reflecting the dynamic nature of volatility transmission. The results show that changes in consumer spending and restrictions on international travel in the travel and leisure industry have a bigger impact on volatility spillovers in this sector than on stock exchange indices. These outcomes hold significant implications for sector participants, underscoring the need for resilient strategies to mitigate the impact of global crises on market volatility spillovers.. Travel and leisure sector; Travel and leisure index; COVID-19; Volatility spillover. GLOBAL FINANCIAL CRISIS; STOCK-MARKET; TOURISM; BRICS; INFORMATION; VARIANCE; INDUSTRY; RETURNS; PRICE
Feedback Trading and Its Implications for Return Autocorrelations in India During COVID. In emerging capital markets, feedback trading is a widely pursued strategy by investors. Such behavior may potentially lead to volatility and cause negative autocorrelation in market returns, especially during high volatility. In India, such a linkage has not been explored so far, though institutional investors have pursued feedback trading for the last two decades. Also, COVID-19 has led to higher volatility in the markets and might have altered investors' behavior. This article focuses on finding whether feedback trading is still pursued by institutional investors in Indian equity markets post-COVID and also whether the presence of feedback traders exerts any influence on autocorrelations in market returns. Asymmetric GARCH models are employed to explore the linkage. Findings suggest that while foreign institutional investors continue to pursue positive feedback trading, as in the pre-pandemic period, domestic investors pursue negative feedback trading. However, in the post-pandemic period, as other types of trading became weak or perished, positive feedback traders have started dominating, leading to negative autocorrelation in market returns during heightened volatility. Evidence of negative autocorrelation was not present in the pre-pandemic period. Further, negative news leads to more volatility in returns.JEL Codes: F21, F32, G11. Autocorrelation; institutional investors; trading behavior; post-COVID; volatility. INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS; STOCK RETURNS; INVESTMENT
The only certainty is uncertainty: An analysis of the impact of COVID-19 uncertainty on regional stock markets. Uncertainty surrounding COVID-19 is widespread. We investigate the timing and quantify the impact of COVID-19 related uncertainty on returns and volatility for regional market aggregates using ARCH/GARCH models. Drawing upon economic psychology, COVID-19 related uncertainty is measured by searches for information as reflected by Google search trends. Asian markets are more resilient than others. Latin American markets are most impacted in terms of returns and volatility. For most regions, there is evidence of an increasing impact of COVID-19 related uncertainty which dissipates as the crisis evolves. We confirm that Google search trends capture uncertainty by comparing this measure against alternative uncertainty measures.. COVID-19; pandemic; returns; volatility; regions; structural breaks
Evaluating the Impact of Worldwide Market Crises on Indonesia's Financial Sector: A Comparative Examination of the Global Financial Crisis (GFC) and COVID-19 Pandemic. The study examines how the 2007 to 2008 Global Financial Crisis (GFC) and the recent COVID-19 pandemic have affected the risk-return profile of the Indonesian financial sector index (IDXFinance). Using weekly return data from 2005 to 2022 and the GARCH-M model, the analysis evaluates volatility persistence and clustering. The study employs two dummy variables to represent the two crisis situations, and daily and monthly data analyses are used to validate the findings. The research reveals that the GFC crisis had a negative impact on stock returns, causing volatility clustering and increased IDXFinance return volatility. On the other hand, the COVID-19 pandemic had a less centralized influence on stock returns and volatility. The COVID-19 pandemic had a more subdued impact than the GFC, which began in and affected the banking sector. This study is among the first to examine the response of Indonesia's financial sector to two market crises, and it provides investors with insights into how financial crises like the GFC and COVID-19 affect the Financial Sector Index in Indonesia's return and volatility. The study also highlights the risk and financial sector performance, which can be helpful for policymakers and practitioners to anticipate and mitigate future risks.. financial sector; global financial crisis (GFC); COVID-19 pandemic; market crises; risk-return profile; Indonesian stock market; stock returns. VOLATILITY
Predictability of Stock Price Fluctuations Based on Business Relationships: A Comparison of Normal and the COVID-19 Pandemic Periods in Japan. The stock prices of a company are significantly influenced by changes of its business relationships. However, the effectiveness of stock price prediction based on such inter-firm business relationships has been partially confirmed in limited region and/or timeframe cases. In particular, it has not been verified under highly volatile market conditions such as those caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. To address these issues, we analyzed the impact of supplier-customer relationships on stock prices in the case of the Japanese stock market using The Fama-French three-factor model and publicly available information of business relationships. The subjects were classified into two conditions-normal and COVID-19-and the stock price predictability associated with changes of stock prices of related companies for both short and long holding periods. As a result, the significance of stock price predictability was confirmed on a daily and monthly basis in the given region. In addition, specific factors including a volatile event caused by a customer company, a stock price downturn, and the company size of a customer particularly improved stock price predictability in the pandemic.. return predictability; stock price fluctuation; customer-supplier relationship; interfirm relationship; COVID-19; risk management
The effect of the COVID-19 outbreak on hospitality and tourism stock returns in Thailand. This study examines the volatility transmission effects between stock returns and the growth rate of total confirmed COVID-19 cases by using daily data of the hospitality and tourism industry taken from the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) index. Augmented Dicky-Fuller (ADF), Phillips-Perron (PP), Kwiatkowski-Phillips-Schmidt-Shin (KPSS), Elliott-Rothenberg-Stock (ERS) and Ng-Perron (NP) unit root tests were used to test, for both series are stationary. The BEKK-GARCH methodology was employed to formulate conditional variance-covariance equations. The results reveal that the pandemic interacts negatively with stock returns from the hospitality and tourism industry. Stock market returns are significantly negatively associated with daily growth in total confirmed COVID-19 cases.. COVID-19; the BEKK-GARCH model; stock return market; Thailand. TIME-SERIES; UNIT-ROOT; VARIABLES; MODELS; MARKET; TESTS
Contagion among European financial indices, evidence from a quantile VAR approach. The aim of this paper is to analyze the dynamic relationships binding European financial market indices over the decade 2013-2022. In particular, we estimate a quantile VAR to study spillovers in different volatility scenarios using a measure of realised volatility robust to jumps and microstructural noise. Our results reveal that, especially for low quantiles, the degree of implied interconnectedness between the indices is affected negatively by the Brexit and the outbreak of the Russia -Ukraine conflict, while it augments after the Covid-19 pandemic occurrence. We also found that the EU central markets (Belgian, Dutch, French, and German) are important for the stability of the Eurozone system when uncertainty increases. On the other hand, the Italian and Portuguese markets transmit spillovers when volatility is high, whereas when the volatility is moderate or reduced, they absorb spillovers. The role of Scandinavian markets is mixed since the Finnish and Swedish markets are spillover emitters, while the Danish and the Norwegian emit only when the volatility is high. Our empirical analysis provides valuable information to policymakers, practitioners, and financial institutions.. Volatility spillovers; Realised volatility; Quantile regression; Network analysis; Financial uncertainty. IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; VOLATILITY SPILLOVERS; EXCHANGE-RATE; MARKETS; BREXIT; CONNECTEDNESS; RISK; US
Application of machine learning algorithm to predict the behavior of stocks marketed in Brazil. Modern economy offers several investment options, making capital assignments complex, slow and risky. In order to assist investors in the decision-making process, artificial intelligence tools aim at finding patterns hidden in data and providing useful, timely and accurate information. This work analyzes the application of machine learning algorithms in the selection of portfolios in the Brazilian market. Recent research intended to predict the stock market behavior implementing machine learning with conventional methods such as technical or fundamental analysis (Anghel, 2021; Kamara et al., 2022; Nti et al., 2020b); while few combine analyses in emerging and volatile markets like Brazil. Thus, three machine learning models were trained using variables from the technical and/or fundamental analysis. The sample included 40,562 observations from six companies listed on B3, from August 1994 to December 2021. Models trained only with fundamental or technical variables evidenced low accuracy, which was translated into low learning and generalization capacity ofthe algorithm. In contrast, the model includingthe combination of technical and fundamental variables revealed an average accuracy of 70,7 % on 5 folds, which was supported by the literature that indicates that hybrid models can provide greater accuracy and lower volatility. In addition, results exceed the accuracy of previous studies (e.g. Emir et al., 2012; Kim, 2003; Zhang & Zhao, 2009), which indicates that the Support Vector Machine-SVM can also be applied to emerging markets, even in crisis times, such as COVID-19 pandemic.. machine learning; portfolio selection; technical analysis; fundamental analysis. SUPPORT VECTOR MACHINES; SELECTION; HYBRID; ENSEMBLE
Financial Spillover in Emerging Asia: A Tale of Three Crises. By measuring time-varying financial spillovers of five asset classes, we analyze the propagation of shocks originating in the United States and Japan into countries of emerging Asia (EA). We compare the scale and nature of spillovers during the 2008-09 global financial crisis (GFC), the 2013 taper tantrum(TT), and the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic (C-19). Based on the direct and indirect spillovers, the intensity of the spillover effect was largest during C-19 due to its global and multidimensional nature, and the United States was a net transmitter of spillovers particularly in bonds and equity markets. TT was an important episode for EA as it marked the beginning of the region's financial volatility and increased spillovers especially in bonds market. The impulse responses reveal that most spillovers were transmitted rapidly, in a matter of days. In times of recession whereby financial stability is in danger of being affected by spillovers, a concrete financial cooperation remains absent in EA although formal institutions designed to deal with the contagion have been put in place.. VOLATILITY SPILLOVERS
Machine Learning-Driven Portfolio Optimization Using Money Flow Index-Based Sentiment Signals. Market indices serve as a benchmark for performance comparison, guide asset allocation decisions, and reflect overall market sentiment and economic conditions, thereby influencing investment strategies by representing a segment of the market. Unquestionably, investor sentiment impacts price movement. In this paper, the objectives were to study the effectiveness of the Money Flow Index (MFI) in enhancing the performance of predictive analysis by capturing market psychology, developing an investment strategy, and analyzing the performance of the method mentioned. This study applies machine learning algorithms with technical indicators and optimizes portfolio allocation based on three notable market indices in Southeast Asia (SEA): SET50 in Thailand, STI in Singapore, and VN30 in Vietnam. Firstly, we combined technical indicators with machine learning-Support Vector Classifier (SVC), Random Forest (RF), and Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost)-by comparing datasets with and without MFI over the period from 2013 to 2023. The results showed that XGBoost with MFI delivered the best predictive performance across three indices. These findings indicate that MFI significantly enhances prediction accuracy, even during volatile market conditions (COVID-19). Additionally, the predictions were integrated into the Markowitz Mean-Variance (MV) model to construct an optimal portfolio, which was then benchmarked against an equal-weight portfolio (1/N). Ultimately, the findings demonstrate that incorporating the machine learning predictions into the MV framework efficiently generates wealth.. money flow index; machine learning; market index; portfolio optimization. TECHNICAL ANALYSIS; MARKET; PREDICTION; STRATEGY; PRICES; MODEL
THE RETREAT FROM BIST: INSIGHTS INTO FOREIGN PORTFOLIO INVESTMENT MOVEMENTS. The need for rapid growth and development in developing countries increases the demand for capital. As a result, foreign portfolio investments are of great importance, especially in emerging markets, as they help meet capital needs. However, their ability to move quickly also introduces high volatility to financial markets. This study examines changes in the share of foreign portfolio investors in Borsa Istanbul from 2004 to 2023, aiming to provide long-term insights to market participants. Initially, changes in the foreign portfolio investor ratio over time are graphically analyzed alongside the BIST 100 index and the average interest rate of deposits with a maturity of up to 3 months. These changes are evaluated in the context of both global and local developments. The study then investigates the causal relationship between the foreign portfolio investor ratio and the BIST 100 index using a cointegration test and a causality test based on the VECM model. The findings show a one-way causality from the BIST 100 index to the foreign portfolio investor ratio, indicating that foreign investors' market movements are largely influenced by the performance of the BIST 100, and local market dynamics significantly affect foreign capital inflows.. Foreign Portfolio Investment; Borsa & Idot;stanbul; Causality Analysis. CAPITAL FLOWS; VOLATILITY; COVID-19; RETURN; RATES; RISK
Can hybrid model improve the forecasting performance of stock price index amid COVID-19? Contextual evidence from the MEEMD-LSTM-MLP approach. The sudden eruption of COVID-19 has inflicted tremendous damage to the worldwide economy, and stock markets have become violently volatile due to its negative impact. Therefore, accurate forecasting of stock price index has been playing an essential role in maintaining national economic security and formulating related policies. In this paper, a novel decomposition-ensemble model is proposed to predict the highly fluctuating stock price index. To begin with, the modified ensemble empirical mode decomposition (MEEMD) method is adopted to decompose the original stock price index into subsequences with different frequencies. Then, the last highfrequency subsequence and other subsequences are predicted through multilayer perceptron (MLP) and long short-term memory (LSTM), respectively. Finally, the prediction outcomes of different model subsequences are reconstructed into the ultimate prediction results by utilizing the integration method. Compared with the contrast models, the MEEMD-LSTM-MLP model proposed in our paper not only demonstrates significant advantages in multi-step forecasting for both emerging and developed markets, but also achieves excellent prediction performance amidst the severe market fluctuations triggered by COVID-19. Furthermore, the application of the MEEMD-LSTM-MLP model is extended to financial time series with different data characteristics and market types, which further proves its high applicability and reliability. Therefore, the conducted hybrid MEEMD-LSTM-MLP model is an effective and stable multi-step forecasting tool to provide valuable intelligent technical support for governments and enterprises in complex economic conditions.. Stock price index multi-step forecasting; COVID-19; Modified ensemble empirical mode; decomposition; Long short-term memory; Multilayer perceptron. VOLATILITY; DECOMPOSITION; PREDICTION
Volatility Spillovers and Market Decoupling: Evidence from BRICS and China's Green Sector. The global economic importance of green tech is rising. Yet the role of the green financial sector in the propagation of volatility is still unclear. Although the existing literature often characterizes green assets as stable, the new risks, particularly US-China trade tensions that target the green sector directly, may uncover potential vulnerabilities. As China's green sector has attained global leadership, its interconnections with other major economies require a closer examination, especially within the BRICS block. Applying the Bayesian VAR with Minnesota Ridge prior and a TVP-VAR model-based connectedness approach on a dataset of 1880 observations spanning from 2016 to 2025, we identified that volatility in China's green sector peaked during the COVID-19 pandemic and resurged in early 2025 amid trade tensions. Uniquely, this study also finds that, despite the intensification of political and economic relations between BRICS members, the interconnectedness of their financial markets has been weakening, suggesting their long-term decoupling and regionalization. From 2016 to 2024, green indices remained historically peripheral, with limited, stable ties to the Nasdaq and SSE. In 2025, short shock-driven transmitter episodes have emerged and indicate an incipient integration rather than a permanent regime change.. volatility spillovers; sustainable development; BRICS; BVAR; TVP-VAR. DYNAMICS; UNION
Daily growth at risk: Financial or real drivers? The answer is not always the same. We propose a daily growth-at-risk (GaR) approach based on high -frequency financial and real indicators for monitoring downside risks in the US economy. We show that the relative importance of these indicators in terms of their forecasting power is time varying. Indeed, the optimal forecasting weights of our variables differed clearly between the Global Financial Crisis and the recent Covid-19 crisis, reflecting the dissimilar nature of these two events. We introduce LASSO, elastic net, and adaptive sparse group LASSO into the family of mixed data sampling models used to estimate GaR and show how they outperform previous candidates explored in the literature. Moreover, equity market volatility, credit spreads, and the Aruoba-Diebold-Scotti business conditions index are found to be relevant indicators for nowcasting economic activity, especially during episodes of crisis. Overall, our results show that daily information about both real and financial variables is key for producing accurate point and tail-risk nowcasts of economic activity. (c) 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of International Institute of Forecasters. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).. Vulnerable growth; Quantiles; Machine learning; Forecasting; Value at risk. QUANTILE REGRESSION; COMBINATION; PREDICTION; REGULARIZATION; VARIABLES; SELECTION
Volatility Dynamics and Mixed Jump-GARCH Model Based Jump Detection in Financial Markets. In this paper, we introduce a novel parametric approach for detecting jumps in daily frequency data. Our jump detection method leverages the characteristics of volatility to distinguish the presence or absence of jumps. By specifying a model in terms of the mixture of GARCH and jump-GARCH, we identify jumps based on the posterior probability of states yielded by the fitted model. The EM algorithm is employed to resolve the parameters in the model. Through Monte Carlo experiments, we evaluate the performance of our parametric jump detection approach, the mixed jump-GARCH model, in comparison to an alternative test. The results indicate that our approach demonstrates superior overall performance of both sensitivity and reliability in jump detection than its benchmark models. Empirical evidence further supports these findings, particularly highlighting the mixed jump-GARCH model's ability to identify several significant jumps associated with key events, such as the 2008 US financial crisis and the 2020 Covid-19 pandemic. Importantly, these jumps are ignored by the benchmark nonparametric test.. Jumps detection; Gaussian mixture distribution; Jump-GARCH model; EM algorithm; C22; C58; G15; G41. EXCHANGE; IMPLICIT; OPTIONS; IMPACT
Research on Chinese Stock Market during COVID-19-Based on Random Matrix Theory. This paper focuses on the three industries that are greatly impacted by COVID-19, including the consumption industry, the pharmaceutical industry, and the financial industry. The daily returns of 98 stocks in the consumption industry, the pharmaceutical industry, and the financial industry in the 100 trading days from January 2, 2020, to June 3, 2020, are selected. Based on the random matrix theory, it first analyzes whether the stock market conforms to the efficient market hypothesis during the epidemic period, and second it further studies the linkage between the three industries. The results show that (1) the correlation coefficient is approximately a normal distribution, but the mean value is greater than 0, which is greater than that of the more mature markets such as the United States. (2) There are three eigenvalues greater than the prediction value, of which the maximum eigenvalue is about 11.18 times larger than the largest eigenvalue of the RMT. (3) There is a significant positive relationship between the maximum eigenvalue and the correlation coefficient. The specific market performance is that the stock price fluctuations show a high degree of consistency. (4) In the sample interval, the financial industry has a restraining effect on the consumption industry in the short term, and the pharmaceutical industry has a promoting and then restraining effect on the consumption industry in the short term. The consumption industry has a promoting effect on the financial industry in the short term, and the pharmaceutical industry has a promoting and then restraining effect on the financial industry in the short term. The consumption industry has a promoting and then restraining effect on the pharmaceutical industry in the short term, and the financial industry has a promoting and then restraining effect on the pharmaceutical industry in the short term. (5) In the sample interval, the consumption industry is mainly affected by itself, while the role of the pharmaceutical industry and the financial industry is very small. The pharmaceutical industry is mainly affected by itself and the consumption industry, while the role of the financial industry is very small. The financial industry is mainly affected by itself and the consumption industry, while the role of the pharmaceutical industry is very small. This situation has consequences for individual investors and institutional investors, since some stock returns can be expected, creating opportunities for arbitrage and for abnormal returns, contrary to the assumptions of random walk and information efficiency. The research on the correlation between asset returns will help to accurately price assets and avoid losses caused by price fluctuations during the epidemic.. PORTFOLIO OPTIMIZATION; CROSS-CORRELATIONS; CAPITAL-MARKETS; RANDOM-WALKS; VOLATILITY; STABILITY
Efficacy of GARCH-EVT Model in Intraday Risk Management: Evidence from Severely Pandemic-affected Countries. Countries around the world have experienced severe-to-moderate economic restrictions during the first two waves of COVID-19 pandemic. The present article captures the time frame of this unprecedented turmoil to test the efficacy of the conditional extreme value theory (EVT) model to forecast value at risk (VaR) and expected shortfall (ES). The article considers the eight most-affected countries and applies the generalized autoregressive conditional heteroskedasticity (GARCH) process in appropriate GARCH-EVT models assuming Student's t distribution to accommodate the fat-tailed behaviour of financial return series. The study confirms that our model is substantially superior in forecasting intraday VaR and ES in comparison to other conditional EVT models with a classical assumption of normal distribution as well as an unconditional EVT model. Contrary to more commonly used 5-minute-frequency data in intraday risk management, we use hourly data, which is much less researched in the context of stock market volatility forecasting. Moreover, our study adds to the reliability of conditional EVT models because of its accuracy in predicting intraday risk during extreme economic uncertainty in severely pandemic-hit countries.. Value at risk; expected shortfall; conditional EVT; forecasting; intraday risk; pandemic
Impact of COVID-19 pandemic on Moroccan sectoral stocks indices. In this paper, we make an original contribution by identifying the impact of COVID-19 on Moroccan sectoral stocks indices. For this purpose, we collected data of 22 sectors from the Casablanca stock exchange from January 2017 to December 2021 and investigated two regression models that included a dummy variable representing the onset of COVID-19. In addition, we examined performance measures (Sharp ratio and Treynor ratio) and risk measures (CVaR and Beta) of each individual sector before and during COVID-19. Furthermore, a GARCH model is applied to show conditional variance, aiming to emphasize the volatility of the selected stocks indices overall the chosen period. The results allowed us to divide sectors into two samples: the first one, referred to as sample 1, that was negatively impacted, and the second one, referred to as sample 2, that benefited from the pandemic of COVID-19. Further, conditional variance revealed that COVID-19 boosted, significantly but for a short period, the volatility of all sectors, even though the magnitude of the effect on volatility varies by sample and also by sector. Overall, we see COVID-19 as a crisis for some sectors and an opportunity for a new business transformation, as it is a period that results in significant improvement for some specific sectors. Furthermore, our results reflect the behavior of the sectors of an African emerging market during the COVID-19 outbreak, which is relevant for the formulation of strategies to ensure financial sustainability during future sanitary crises of this magnitude, for this type of economy. (C) 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of African Institute of Mathematical Sciences / Next Einstein Initiative.. COVID-19; CAPM; Stock market; GARCH; Performance; Risk. VARIANCE; EVENT
Causality and volatility spillovers of banks' stock price returns on BSE Bankex returns. This paper investigates the causal relationships and volatility spillovers between the BSE Bankex index and the stock prices of five major Indian banks (Axis Bank, HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, Kotak Bank, and SBI). Daily data from January 2, 2018 to March 8, 2023 are used, and statistical techniques such as descriptive statistics, Unit Root test, Cointegration test, Ganger Causality test, OLS regression, and GARCH model are employed. The study finds bidirectional causal relationships between the bank stocks and BSE Bankex returns, suggesting that the movement of the bank stocks significantly affects the overall market returns and vice versa. The study also finds significant volatility spillovers between the bank stocks and BSE Bankex returns, implying that the shocks in the bank stocks affect the market returns and vice versa. The study's outcomes have practical implications for investors and policymakers. Investors can use the results to make informed investment decisions in the Indian stock market, while policymakers can use the findings to monitor the financial stability of the banking sector and design appropriate policy interventions to address any potential financial crises. Overall, the study's findings suggest that policymakers should proactively monitor and manage market risks to safeguard overall financial stability.. bank stocks; BSE Bankex; causality; GARCH; volatility spillover. FINANCIAL CRISIS; BEHAVIOR; EFFICIENCY; COVID-19; INDEXES
Asymmetric causality and dynamic spillovers between biodiversity index and US equity sectors. This paper employs an empirical framework that combines the quantile-on-quantile Granger causality test with the TVP-VAR connectedness model to systematically examine the quantile impact and spillover effects of the S&P 500 Biodiversity Index (USBIO) on US stock sector returns. The QQGC analysis reveals that USBIO exhibits widespread yet heterogeneous forecasting capability across sectors, displaying pronounced quantile dependence and asymmetric characteristics. When biodiversity assets are positioned at lower levels, they demonstrate strong forecasting functionality for markets during boom periods. The TVP-VAR connectedness analysis further confirms that USBIO serves as a significant net spillover transmitter within the system. The total connectedness index of 82.04% indicates that biodiversity factors have become deeply embedded in the systematic pricing structure of equity markets, particularly exhibiting strong directional spillover effects towards information technology, telecommunication services, and consumer discretionary sectors. The time-varying analysis reveals that system connectedness surged during COVID-19 and has maintained structurally elevated levels in the post-COVID-19 era, whilst technology sector exposure to USBIO has intensified consistently since 2022. Our research provides time-varying signals for sector rotation in portfolio management.. Biodiversity; Quantile-on-Quantile; Causality; Connectedness; S & P 500; Stock sectors. VOLATILITY
The Impact of ESG Ratings on the Systemic Risk of European Blue-Chip Firms. There are diverging results in the literature on whether engaging in ESG related activities increases or decreases the financial and systemic risks of firms. In this study, we explore whether maintaining higher ESG ratings reduces the systemic risks of firms in a stock market context. For this purpose we analyse the systemic risk indicators of the constituent stocks of S&P Europe 350 for the period of January 2016-September 2020, which also partly covers the COVID-19 period. We apply a VAR-MGARCH model to extract the volatilities and correlations of the return shocks of these stocks. Then, we obtain the systemic risk indicators by applying a principle components approach to the estimated volatilities and correlations. Our focus is on the impact of ESG ratings on systemic risk indicators, while we consider network centralities, volatilities and financial performance ratios as control variables. We use fixed effects and OLS methods for our regressions. Our results indicate that (1) the volatility of a stock's returns and its centrality measures in the stock network are the main sources contributing to the systemic risk measure, (2) firms with higher ESG ratings face up to 7.3% less systemic risk contribution and exposure compared to firms with lower ESG ratings and (3) COVID-19 augmented the partial effects of volatility, centrality measures and some financial performance ratios. When considering only the COVID-19 period, we find that social and governance factors have statistically significant impacts on systemic risk.. systemic risk; network centrality; sustainable; ESG; volatility; principal components; COVID-19. CORPORATE SOCIAL-RESPONSIBILITY; NETWORK; MODELS; MARKET; CONNECTEDNESS; PERFORMANCE; US
Impact of COVID-19 on the Stock Market Performance of Global IT Sector. Predicting return and volatility in the global Capital Market during a pandemic is challenging, and it is more difficult for a specific sector, particularly if that sector has a positive outlook. The goal of this research is to look at the impact of COVID-19 on the mean and volatility of the Information Technology Indexes of the best nine technology-driven countries based on return performance using an econometric GARCH model that is widely used. The daily returns of information technology indexes are evaluated for the same from November 2018 to February 2021. Data is taken from Yahoo Finance for CAC Tech (France), DAX Tech (Germany), FTSE All Tech (UK), KOPSI 200 IT (Korea), NIFTY IT (India), S&P 500 IT (US), S&P TSX (Canada), SSE_IT (China) and TOPIX17 (Japan). The results show daily positive mean returns for 8 countries' IT Indices and further, an uptrend in mean daily returns is observed in the crisis period for 6 countries' IT Indices. The exogenous variable COVID-19 which was taken as a regressor for the GARCH model was found to be positively significant for IT indices of all the countries. The overall results confirm the presence of the mean-reverting phenomenon for IT indices of all the countries.. GARCH; IT; Risk; Return; Volatility. RETURN; RISK; CAPM
Semi-parametric financial risk forecasting incorporating multiple realized measures. A semi-parametric joint Value-at-Risk (VaR) and Expected Shortfall (ES) forecasting framework employing multiple realized measures is developed. The proposed framework extends the realized exponential GARCH model to be semi-parametrically estimated, via a joint loss function, whilst extending existing quantile time series models to incorporate multiple realized measures. A quasi-likelihood is built, employing the asymmetric Laplace distribution that is directly linked to a joint loss function, which enables Bayesian inference for the proposed model. An adaptive Markov Chain Monte Carlo method is used for the model estimation. The empirical section evaluates the performance of the proposed framework with six stock markets from January 2000 to June 2022, covering the period of COVID-19. Three realized measures, including 5-minute realized variance, bi-power variation, and realized kernel, are incorporated and evaluated in the proposed framework. One-step-ahead 1% and 2.5% VaR and ES forecasting results of the proposed model are compared to a range of parametric and semi-parametric models, lending support to the effectiveness of the proposed framework.. Semi-parametric; Realized measures; Markov chain Monte Carlo; Value-at-risk; Expected shortfall; C14; C32. VOLATILITY; RETURNS
From fears to recession? Time-frequency risk contagion among stock and credit default swap markets during the COVID pandemic. This study uses a high-dimensional time-frequency volatility spillover model to examine risk interactions across 32 global stock and credit default swap (CDS) markets during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Our empirical results mainly show that cross-market risk spillovers between these two types of markets are rare over the whole crisis period. Adding CDS assets to the stock portfolio would significantly decrease the overall risk spillovers in the mixed portfolio. Then, the time-frequency spillover and rolling window analyses confirm this finding and provide further evidence of frequency heterogeneity of risk spillovers during the pandemic. The outbreak of the COVID pandemic only sharply increases short-term risk spillovers between the stock and sovereign CDS market but exerts insignificant impacts on the medium and long-term cross-market risk spillovers. Moreover, our results show that developed countries are net transmitters in the stock markets. In contrast, the emerging markets account for the most risk spillovers in sovereign CDS markets over the sample period, emphasizing the heterogenous adverse impacts of the pandemic across various countries and markets. Finally, we find that bailouts implemented by the US and EU central banks, though with heterogeneous impacts across frequencies, gradually enhance the confidence and resilience of investors in these markets.. CDS markets; connectedness; COVID-19; risk spillover. IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; CONNECTEDNESS
Bayesian quantile forecasting via the realized hysteretic GARCH model. This research introduces a new model, a realized hysteretic GARCH, that is similar to a three-regime nonlinear framework combined with daily returns and realized volatility. The setup allows the mean and volatility switching in a regime to be delayed when the hysteresis variable lies in a hysteresis zone. This nonlinear model presents explosive persistence and high volatility in Regime 1 in order to capture extreme cases. We employ the Bayesian Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) procedure to estimate model parameters and to forecast volatility, value at risk (VaR), and expected shortfall (ES). A simulation study highlights the properties of the proposed MCMC methods, as well as their accuracy and satisfactory performance as quantile forecasting tools. We also consider two competing models, the realized GARCH and the realized threshold GARCH, for comparison and carry out Bayesian risk forecasting via predictive distributions on four stock markets. The out-of-sample period covers the recent 4 years by a rolling window approach and includes the COVID-19 pandemic period. Among the realized models, the realized hysteretic GARCH model outperforms at the 1% level in terms of violation rates and backtests.. expected shortfall; hysteretic GARCH model; Markov chain Monte Carlo method; realized volatility; threshold GARCH model; value at risk. VALUE-AT-RISK; CONDITIONAL HETEROSCEDASTICITY; VOLATILITY MODELS; VARIANCE; POST
Retail traders and co-movement: Evidence from Robinhood trading activity. We find evidence that retail trading activity by Robinhood traders is associated with lower levels of return comovement and liquidity co-movement. We demonstrate the significance of these relationships primarily employing a two-way fixed effects panel data regression model covering cross-sectional and time-series observations of US stock trades from May 2018 to July 2020. The findings hold true across various cross-sectional subsamples and across subperiods before and after March 2020, coinciding with the stock market crash induced by heightened risks of the COVID-19 pandemic. With regard to returns, our analysis identifies three comovement channels: 1) increased correlated trading by retail traders, 2) extended delay in incorporating marketwide information, and 3) a direct effect influenced by the integration of firm-specific information into prices. In contrast, for liquidity co-movement, we fail to identify evidence of plausible channels relating to either volatility or correlated trading. However, it appears that the significant direct effects that we document stem from a broadened array of trading strategies when retail traders contribute to the market. Collectively, these findings have important implications as return co-movement limits investors' ability to diversify investments and manage risks, while liquidity co-movement heightens market vulnerability to crashes.. Retail traders; Individual investors; Co-movement; Liquidity; Commonality in return. LIQUIDITY COMMONALITY; INDIVIDUAL INVESTORS; CROSS-SECTION; MARKET LIQUIDITY; STOCK; PRICE; COMOVEMENT; ATTENTION; PERFORMANCE; MEDIATION
Assessing Financial Stability in Turbulent Times: A Study of Generalized Autoregressive Conditional Heteroskedasticity-Type Value-at-Risk Model Performance in Thailand's Transportation Sector during COVID-19. The Value-at-Risk (VaR) metric serves as a pivotal tool for quantifying market risk, offering an estimation of potential investment losses. Predominantly employed within financial sectors, it aids in adhering to regulatory mandates and in devising capital reserve strategies. Nonetheless, the predictive precision of VaR models frequently faces scrutiny, particularly during crises and heightened uncertainty phases. Phenomena like volatility clustering impinge on the accuracy of these models. To mitigate such constraints, conditional volatility models are integrated to augment the robustness and adaptability of VaR approaches. This study critically evaluates the efficacy of GARCH-type VaR models within the transportation sector amidst the Thai stock market's volatility during the COVID-19 pandemic. The dataset encompasses daily price fluctuations in the Transportation Sector index (TRANS), the Service Industry index (SERVICE), and 17 pertinent stocks within the Stock Exchange of Thailand, spanning from 28 December 2018 to 28 December 2023, thereby encapsulating the pandemic era. The employed GARCH-type VaR models include GARCH (1,1) VaR, ARMA (1,1)-GARCH (1,1) VaR, GARCH (1,1)-M VaR, IGARCH (1,1) VaR, EWMA VaR, and csGARCH (1,1) VaR. These are juxtaposed with more traditional, less computationally intensive models like the Historical Simulation VaR and Delta Normal VaR. The backtesting methodologies encompass Kupiec's POF test, the Independence Test, and Christoffersen's Interval Forecast test. Intriguingly, the findings reveal that the Historical Simulation VaR model surpasses GARCH-type VaR models in failure rate accuracy. Within the GARCH-type category, the EWMA VaR model exhibited superior failure rate accuracy. The csGARCH (1,1) VaR and EWMA VaR models emerged as notably robust. These findings bear significant implications for managerial decision-making in financial risk management.. VaR Model; risk measures; value at risk; COVID-19; GARCH; transportation; Thailand; backtesting. EMERGING MARKETS; RETURNS; CRISIS; IMPACT
The importance of cash during an economic shock. This paper investigates how firm-level measures of financial distress risk are associated with both long-run event returns and options market implied volatility skew following the COVID-19 economic shock. We find that the current ratio and cash to current liabilities ratio from bankruptcy literature are important, but are dominated by cash holdings. Importantly, the effects of cash holdings are most pronounced in non-high-technology firms. We also examine an earlier event date tied to a potential leak of a confidential US Senate committee briefing information; we find that even at this earlier date cash holdings have a significant impact on abnormal stock returns. Additionally, at this earlier event date (but not at the normal event date), cash holdings are associated with lower implied volatility skew, an indication that the options market traders view higher cash holdings as reducing risk of financial distress prior to the official COVID-19 US announcement. Overall, our findings suggest that corporate cash holdings, especially of non-high-technology firms, are informative to both stock market investors and options market traders during an economic shock.. Economic shock; COVID-19; stock returns; cash holdings; financial distress; G11; G14; G32. FINANCIAL DISTRESS; INFORMATION; EQUITY; SIZE; PROFITABILITY; INVESTMENT; PREDICTION; BANKRUPTCY; HOLDINGS; CRISIS
Decision-making model to predict auto-rejection: An implementation of ARIMA for accurate forecasting of stock price volatility during the Covid-19. This study aims to determine an accurate forecasting model, especially an error rate of around 0, and to examine how the automatic rejection system reacts to stock price as a result of the pandemic. The statistical clustering method is used for the dataset in form of daily observations, while the sample covers the period of cases before and after COVID-19 pandemic from 02 January 2019 to 20 June 2020 at the Trinitan Minerals and Metal Company. Furthermore, the data used in the estimation are the opening and closing price of returns, which are later processed using SAS analysis tools. It is shown that the most appropriate decision-making processes are those proven to be most effective. Therefore, predicting future events based on a suitable time series model will help policymakers and strategists make decisions and develop appropriate strategic plans regarding the stock market. Meanwhile, 98% of the ARIMA (1,1,1) is a forecasting model which can be applied to predict stock prices. The new approach of this study is an integrated autoregressive moving average used as an attempt to accurately predict stock prices during a pandemic. (c) 2023 by the authors; licensee Growing Science, Canada.. Decision making; Stock price; Auto-rejection; Covid-19; Forecasting. TIME-SERIES; MARKET; LIMITS; PERFORMANCE; IMPACT; DETERMINANTS; INVESTMENT; BANKING; VOLUME; RETURN
Dynamic Linkages Between Profitability and Its Determinants: Empirical Evidence from Jordanian Commercial Banks. This paper employed the panel Unit root tests, co-integration, and panel Autoregressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) model to examine the link between banks' profitability and its determinants for 13 Jordanian commercial banks between 2000 and 2018. Pooled mean group (PMG) and dynamic fixed effect (DFE) models were applied. Hausman test result confirmed that DFE was preferred to PMG. The results confirmed the existence of a long-run equilibrium relationship between commercial banks' profitability and their determinants. In the short-run, banks' profitability in Jordan is positively related to return volatility. However, this is negatively related to credit risk and market concentration. In the long run, profitability is positively related to credit risk and negatively related to operational risk, bank size, stock market volatility, and market concentration. Credit risk and capital have bi-direction causality with banks' profitability, while GDP and market concentration have uni-direction causality. At present, the Jordanian economy during the Covid-19 pandemic triggered the banking sector's impact on the economy as the sector contributed to 20.8% GDP in 2019. The findings can help stakeholders such as bank managers, investors, shareholders, and policymakers make better decisions on banks' performance, thereby contributing to their economies.. Profitability; Commercial Banks; Pooled Mean Group; Dynamic Fixed Effect; Jordan. FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENT; PERFORMANCE; MALAYSIA; GROWTH; MIDDLE; RISK
Does Market Fear Forecast US Economic Activity During the COVID-19 Crisis? Evidence from Time-Varying Asymmetric Causality and Wavelet Quantile Correlation Models. This study examines whether past values of the Chicago Board Options Exchange's (CBOE)'s volatility/investor fear index (VIX), can forecast the future values of US weekly economic activity (WEA) index over the initial 59 weeks of the COVID-19 pandemic, beginning on 20 January 2020. Using Hatemi-J time-varying, symmetric and asymmetric causality tests together with wavelet quantile correlations (WQC), we assess both short- and long-horizon predictive dynamics. The Hatemi-J symmetric and time-varying causality test shows a potential predictive link from VIX to future WEA, whereas the asymmetric and time-varying causality tests show that changes in investor fear did not predict subsequent economic disruptions or recoveries. By applying the wavelet Granger causality on the daily data of VIX and financial stress index (FSI), we find evidence that VIX did not have causal impacts on FSI for any frequency except the long-run. Furthermore, the results from the WQC show both quantile-varying and time-varying correlations, with short-run (2-4 and 4-8 week) correlations contradicting the conventional theory linking uncertainty to economic activity. Overall, the findings indicate that VIX offered limited real-time forecasting value during the early pandemic period, highlighting the need for caution when using fear indices as leading indicators under extreme uncertainty.. COVID-19 shocks; Economic dislocations; Stock market dislocations; Bayesian VAR; Time-varying causality; Asymmetric causality; C14; C32; E17; O4. VOLATILITY; VIX
Sustainable Indices Outperforming Traditional Indices in India: A Comparative Study Pre and During COVID-19. This study aims to compare the performance of sustainable indices with the traditional indices of Indian stock markets, both before and during the COVID-19 pandemic in terms of risk, return, and volatility. The findings indicate that sustainable indices consistently outperform traditional indices regarding risk, returns, and volatility aspects during the COVID-19 crisis. The examination of volatility reveals the presence of significant internal volatility and asymmetric effects within the indices. Further, the Asymmetric VAR-BEKK-GARCH model uncovers a bi-directional volatility spillover between the indices before the COVID-19 period while a unidirectional volatility spillover is observed during the COVID-19 period. The connectedness approach using the TVP-VAR-based Diebold &Yilmaz model shows that sustainable indices are the net transmitters and traditional index is the net receiver of volatility spillover. Moreover, various asset pricing market factors like market premium, Small Minus Big (SMB), High Minus Low (HML), and Winners Minus Losers (WML) are driving the better performances of sustainable indices during the crisis period. Consequently, investors may consider including sustainable indices, funds, ETFs, and stocks as viable alternatives to traditional indices to diversify their portfolios during crisis periods. This analysis supports the Modern Portfolio Theory (MPT), and the 'flight-to-safety' phenomenon during a crisis, and aligns financial goals with Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) considerations.. Sustainable indices; Environmental social and governance (ESG); Risk-return; Asymmetric effect; Volatility spillover; Asset pricing models; C22; C58; G1; G11; G12. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE; MARKET; RETURN; VOLATILITY; INVESTMENT; FUNDS; INVESTORS; VARIANCE; STOCKS
The Dynamic Association of Economic Policy Uncertainty, Short-Term Cross-Border Capital Flows and Systemic Financial Risk. The global economic landscape has become increasingly volatile, as rising economic policy uncertainty (EPU) and frequent abnormal fluctuations in short-term cross-border capital flows (SCF) can easily trigger systemic financial risks (SFR). Clarifying the dynamic relationships among these three factors is therefore crucial for maintaining China's financial stability and improving the effectiveness of policy implementation. Using monthly data on China's financial institutions from 2000 to 2023, this study measures SFR using the DCC-GARCH-Delta CoVaR model and employs a time-varying parameter stochastic volatility vector autoregression (TVP-SV-VAR) model to analyze the dynamic linkages among EPU, SCF, and SFR. The results show that China's SFR has generally declined, reflecting improved financial resilience; EPU consistently promotes SCF, while its impact on SFR varies significantly across different lag periods. Moreover, the medium- and long-term effects of SCF on SFR have intensified, with notable heterogeneity in shock intensity across different periods. Further analysis reveals that SCF helped mitigate SFR during the stock market crash period but significantly amplified it during the pandemic period. This study uncovers the time-varying characteristics of the EPU-SCF-SFR nexus and offers practical insights for emerging economies in seeking to balance capital flows and financial stability amid heightened policy uncertainty.. economic policy uncertainty; systemic financial risk; short-term cross-border capital flows; dynamic association; TVP-SV-VAR
Cross-Market Bankruptcy Prediction: An Interpretable Ensemble Learning Framework Using SHAP Analysis. The increasing complexity and interconnectedness of global financial markets demand more robust and transparent methods for predicting corporate failures across diverse environments. This study introduces a novel computational framework for cross-market bankruptcy prediction that integrates ensemble learning and interpretable artificial intelligence. Our approach combines Natural Gradient Boosting (NGBoost), Categorical Boosting (CatBoost), and Light Gradient Boosting (LightGBM), leveraging the strengths of each algorithm, and incorporates Shapley Additive Explanations (SHAP) for enhanced interpretability. By integrating capital structure optimization principles from trade-off theory with Shapley value frameworks, we establish a three-phase computational process adaptable to market-specific characteristics. Empirical validation using comprehensive financial data from US and Chinese markets (2015-2022), encompassing the COVID-19 crisis period, demonstrates the superior predictive performance of our framework. Our ensemble approach achieves 70 90% prediction accuracy across all the markets and periods. This demonstrates robust performance stability even during the COVID-19 crisis. The SHAP analysis provides granular insights into market-specific bankruptcy indicators, revealing the distinct influence of factors like operational efficiency in the US and leverage in China. These findings underscore the framework's effectiveness in identifying subtle financial distress signals across heterogeneous market structures and during periods of economic volatility, offering valuable insights for risk management and investment strategies.. Cross-Market Bankruptcy Prediction; Ensemble Learning; Shapley Additive Explanations (SHAP); Financial Distress Modeling; Machine Learning Interpretability; Trade-Off Theory; G33; C45; C53; G01; G15; C88. FINANCIAL RATIOS; CORPORATE BANKRUPTCY; MODELS; IMPROVE; RISK; MAP
Nonlinear evidence of investor heterogeneity: retail cash flows as drivers of market dynamics. We quantify long memory in investor-segregated cash flows in the Korean equity market from 2015 to 2024. Using detrended fluctuation analysis on BUY, SELL, and NET aggregates, we estimate the Hurst exponent both as a full-sample measure and in a 250 day rolling window. All series are heavy-tailed, with complementary cumulative distribution exponents roughly between two and three. Time-shuffled controls return Hurst exponents near one-half, indicating that persistence arises from temporal correlations rather than marginal distributions. For BUY and SELL flows, persistence ranks highest for retail investors, intermediate for institutions, and lowest for foreign investors. For NET flows, long-range dependence is lower for all three groups than in their own BUY/SELL baselines. Rolling estimates exhibit clear regime sensitivity, with level shifts around the 2018--2019 tariff episode, the COVID-19 pandemic, and the disinflation period from November 2022 through October 2024. Regressions of daily volatility on the rolling Hurst exponent yield positive and statistically significant coefficients for most groups; notably, the retail NET Hurst exponent shows predictive power for future volatility, whereas the institutional NET Hurst exponent does not. The findings provide a model-light, replicable diagnostic of investor-specific temporal correlations and their regime dependence, challenging a simple noise-trader versus informed-trader.. Econophysics; Heterogeneity; Retail investor; Market efficiency. STOCK; EFFICIENCY; MEMORY
Leveraging LLMs for Financial News Analysis and Macroeconomic Indicator Nowcasting. Approximating macroeconomic indicators is challenging due to the complex interaction of various factors, including global and national economic trends, political decisions, and unpredictable events like pandemics and natural disasters. These complexities, combined with the volatility of economies and the limitations of available data, make accurate modeling difficult. Sentiment analysis of economic news offers a novel approach to this challenge by providing instantaneous insights into public mood and market trends, capturing psychological and behavioral aspects that traditional models may miss. This method can enhance understanding of consumer confidence, investment trends, and stock market performance, for instance. In this study, we developed a dictionary and transformer-based sentiment model applied to over two decades of Hungarian economic news. To improve the model's accuracy, we utilized large language models (LLMs) with active learning to efficiently augment the manually labeled sentiment dataset. We then compared the resulting sentiment-based time series with macroeconomic indicators such as GDP (Gross Domestic Product), PMI (Purchasing Managers' Index), and unemployment rate. Our results show that integrating LLMs significantly enhances the accuracy of the sentiment models, and the sentiment-based indicators can serve as effective nowcasting tools for the inspected macroeconomic indicators.. Biological system modeling; Macroeconomics; Economics; Transformers; Analytical models; Data models; Sentiment analysis; Predictive models; Market research; Encoding; GDP; large language model (LLM); macroeconomic indicator; natural language processing (NLP); PMI; sentiment analysis; unemployment rate. SENTIMENT; CONSUMPTION
Conformal Inference for Online Prediction with Arbitrary Distribution Shifts. We consider the problem of forming prediction sets in an online setting where the distribution generating the data is allowed to vary over time. Previous approaches to this problem suffer from over -weighting historical data and thus may fail to quickly react to the underlying dynamics. Here, we correct this issue and develop a novel procedure with provably small regret over all local time intervals of a given width. We achieve this by modifying the adaptive conformal inference (ACI) algorithm of Gibbs and Candes (2021) to contain an additional step in which the step -size parameter of ACI's gradient descent update is tuned over time. Crucially, this means that unlike ACI, which requires knowledge of the rate of change of the data -generating mechanism, our new procedure is adaptive to both the size and type of the distribution shift. Our methods are highly flexible and can be used in combination with any baseline predictive algorithm that produces point estimates or estimated quantiles of the target without the need for distributional assumptions. We test our techniques on two real -world datasets aimed at predicting stock market volatility and COVID-19 case counts and find that they are robust and adaptive to real -world distribution shifts.. Conformal inference; online prediction; distribution shift; prediction set; online convex optimization
Balanced Funds in India Amid COVID-19 Crisis: Spreader of Financial Contagion?. In its latest financial stability report, dated 11 January 2021, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) emphasised the significance of balanced mutual funds in risk transmission. We investigate the transmission of volatility and contagion effect from Indian balanced funds to representative indices-Bank, PSU Bank, Private Bank, Financial Services, Broader Market, Services Sector and Fixed Income-using three established models: Diagonal BEKK (1995), Dynamic Conditional Correlation (DCC GARCH (2002)) and network model. In analyses of financial time series data, the COVID-19 pandemic has been widely regarded as a structural break. We may better understand the dynamism and scale of spillover before and during a crisis by dividing the study into two periods: pre-COVID-19 (January 2011-29 December 2019) and during COVID-19 (30 December 2019-20 April 2021). The results of all three models support our hypothesis of statistically significant spillover from balanced funds to chosen indices, with strong persistence and a marked increase in long-term volatility spillover, showing the presence of contagion effects. The findings of this paper can assist fund managers in diversifying their portfolios while also benefiting investors educationally. JEL Classification: C23, G12, G23. Contagion; balanced funds; spillover; volatility; COVID-19 crisis. DYNAMIC CONDITIONAL CORRELATION; STOCK MARKETS; EMERGING MARKETS; EUROZONE CRISIS; VOLATILITY; US; TRANSMISSION; CURRENCY; RETURNS; RISK
Forecasting stock market volatility using GARCH models: A comparative study of the U.S. and Saudi markets. The paper analyzes the volatility trends of the Saudi Arabian Tadawul All Share Index (TASI) and the S&P 500 index, focusing on the COVID-19 pandemic as a key market shock. The analysis incorporates daily stock return data covering the period from January 2015 to May 2025. The volatility of emerging and developed markets is examined through EGARCH and GARCH approaches to study characteristics such as volatility clustering and asymmetry. The effect of the pandemic is directly embedded by introducing COVID-19 dummy variables into the models. Empirical findings suggest that both indices are characterized by volatility clustering, and the EGARCH model is more appropriate than the GARCH model for estimating asymmetric volatility, particularly during crisis periods. Additionally, the COVID-19 dummy variable is statistically significant in the EGARCH model, as opposed to the GARCH model. The results support the leverage effect, indicating that negative shocks have a more significant impact on market volatility than positive ones. The S&P 500 showed a faster recovery after the COVID-19 crisis, whereas TASI was slower in mean reversion, indicating structural and behavioral divergence between the markets. This comparative study contributes to the literature by providing a clear picture of volatility dynamics in diverse financial contexts and highlighting the superiority of EGARCH models during crisis periods. The findings offer guidance to policymakers aiming to improve market stability and to investors seeking diversification into both developing and mature markets.. COVID-19; EGARCH; GARCH; S&P 500; Tadawul all share index; Volatility forecasting. RETURNS; IMPACT; GCC
Analysing volatility patterns in emerging markets: symmetric or asymmetric models?. PurposeInvestors aim for returns when investing in stocks, making return volatility a crucial concern. This study compares symmetric and asymmetric GARCH models to forecast volatility in emerging nations like the G4 countries. Accurate volatility forecasting is vital for investors to make well-informed investment decisions, forming the core purpose of this study.Design/methodology/approachFrom January 1993 to May 2021, the study spans four periods, focusing on the global economic crisis of 2008, the Russian crisis of 2015 and the COVID-19 pandemic. Standard generalized autoregressive conditional heteroscedasticity (GARCH), exponential GARCH (E-GARCH) and Glosten-Jagannathan-Runkle GARCH models were employed to analyse the data. Robustness was assessed using the Akaike information criterion, Schwarz information criterion and maximum log-likelihood criteria.FindingsThe study's findings show that the E-GARCH model is the best model for forecasting volatility in emerging nations. This is because the E-GARCH model is able to capture the asymmetric effects of positive and negative shocks on volatility.Originality/valueThis unique study compares symmetric and asymmetric GARCH models for forecasting volatility in emerging nations, a novel approach not explored in prior research. The insights gained can aid investors in constructing more effective risk-adjusted international portfolios, offering a better understanding of stock market volatility to inform strategic investment decisions.. Structural break; Volatility; GARCH; Emerging economies; Financial crises; Russian crises. STOCK; DETERMINANTS
Sustainable Equity Index Dynamic: Connectedness and Information Asymmetry in Emerging Markets. The aim of the study is to investigate the evidence of information asymmetry, dynamic connectedness, and volatility spillover among ESG equity indices of emerging market economies. Using Sign bias test and GARCH family models, the study finds that ESG equity indices have a leverage effect, significantly impacted by bad news over good news shock. The study has used FIGARCH model to measure the persistence of long-memory effects across the emerging market. Further, to ensure the interconnection between ESG equity indices that may arise due to the persistence of long-memory effects, the stusy has examined estimates of TVP-VAR, and finds moderate interconnection between ESG equity indices. To be specific, ESG equity indices of the Philippines, Indonesia, Korea, Singapore, and India are more sensitive to receiving any sustainable innovation shocks from Brazil, South Africa, and Mexican ESG indices. The study finds significant bidirectional relationships between the ESG equity indices of Philippines and Brazil, Indonesia and India, and South Africa and Mexico that may lead to the spreading of market contagion in the presence of more substantial leverage effects with a long memory. This research offers insights for investors to consider sustainable equity assets for efficient portfolio diversification, mitigating environmental, social, and governance risks associated with volatility spillovers and dynamic connectedness. Policymakers may refer the findings of the study to design effective ESG regulations, for reducing risk in global financial system. Since the pandemic has produced more economic and financial instability in emerging markets, investors and regulators may pay more attention to return and volatility connectivity among ESG equity indices and financial markets to safeguard investment and restore market stability.. asymmetric volatility; dynamic connectedness; equity index; leverage effect; sustainability; TVP-VAR. ESG; TIME; SPILLOVERS; GOVERNANCE; ATTENTION; VARIANCE; IMPACT; RETURN; RISK
Monetary policy and financial stability: Evidence from a new macroeconomic environment. This research investigates the impact of a tighter monetary policy on financial stability within a novel macroeconomic environment, with a particular focus on the banking sector. The study uses a Vector Autoregressive (VAR) model to analyze the dynamic and contemporaneous relationships among various economic variables, incorporating time series data up to January 2024. The research is contextualized within the post-pandemic economic landscape, where significant monetary interventions by the Federal Reserve were necessitated by pandemic-induced economic disruptions. These interventions included lowering the federal funds rate and purchasing large quantities of government and mortgage-backed securities, which injected substantial liquidity into the economy. However, the pandemic also altered consumer spending patterns, leading to supply-demand mismatches and a subsequent inflation surge. This paper shows that, despite the unprecedented economic conditions, conventional monetary policy tools, specifically changes in the federal funds rate, remain effective in cooling inflation. The results indicate that, while inflation rates decrease following a contractionary monetary policy shock, the labor market is unresponsive to the Fed's tightening as the unemployment rate decreases. The contractionary shock also leads to increased financial market risk and volatility, tighter credit conditions, and reduced stock returns. Furthermore, the banking sector experiences a decrease in loan volumes and an increase in non-performing loans. Banks' balance sheets are adversely affected, with declines in the capital adequacy ratio, liquidity ratio, and tier 1 leverage ratio. Our research highlights the importance of considering the economic context when assessing monetary policy effectiveness and its implications for financial stability.. Monetary policy; Financial stability; Banking; VAR model. CHANNEL; IMPACT
Ambiguity and market returns: A composite index perspective. This research investigates ambiguity, uncertainty arising from doubts about predictive models, and its impact on market returns. Traditional asset-pricing frameworks treat uncertainty as quantifiable risk with known probabilities, whereas ambiguity represents a deeper challenge because investors cannot fully trust the models that generate forecasts. A composite ambiguity measure is constructed using principal component analysis of three established proxies: the CBOE Volatility Index (VIX), the Economic Policy Uncertainty (EPU) Index, and the RavenPack News Sentiment (SENT) Index. The resulting measure captures belief dispersion across financial, policy, and informational domains within a single interpretable factor. Weekly U.S. data from September 2005 to January 2025 are analyzed to assess whether ambiguity helps explain variation in aggregate market returns. The study findings indicate that higher ambiguity is consistently associated with lower market returns, reflecting investor ambiguity aversion and reduced confidence in predictive models. The revealed pattern suggests that ambiguity amplifies return fluctuations in a state-dependent manner, with effects strengthening during periods of financial stress, such as the global financial crisis, the COVID-19 shock, and the 2022 monetary-tightening cycle. Overall, ambiguity emerges as persistent and state-dependent component of the U.S. equity market, with important implications for theory, policy, and portfolio design. Robustness across selected controls, PCA designs, and sample periods shows that the composite ambiguity factor (CAF) models uncertainty rather than transitory sentiment.. Ambiguity; Market returns; Belief dispersion; Principal component analysis; Markov regime switching; News-based sentiment. RARE DISASTERS; ASSET RETURNS; RISK; MODEL
Effect of COVID-19 on risk spillover between fintech and traditional financial industries. COVID-19 has affected China's financial markets; accordingly, we investigate the effect of COVID-19 on the risk spillover between fintech and traditional financial industries. Using data from April 25, 2012 to April 22, 2022, which we divide into two parts (before and during the COVID-19 periods), we model the dynamic risk spillover relationship following the DCC-GARCH-BEKK and MMV-MFDFA methods. The results show that: (1) The dynamic relationship between fintech and traditional finance is almost positive most of the time, and the dynamic correlations between fintech and realty (real estate development and operation) are the largest. The dynamic linkage between fintech and traditional finance declines after the COVID-19 outbreak. (2) There exists a risk spillover from fintech to every type of bank before and during the COVID-19 periods. Notably, the risk spillover effect of fintech to large state-owned banks and city commercial banks is the largest separately before and during the COVID-19 periods. Meanwhile, there exist a two-way risk spillover between fintech and almost all other traditional financial industries before and during the COVID-19 periods. (3) Owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, the risk spillover relationship, which is in pairs and in the system become more complex. (4) Regarding the whole system, the correlation in the system is anti-persistent most of the time. Moreover, there are large fluctuations and more complex characteristics during the COVID-19 outbreak. However, the whole system was smooth most of the time before the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic.. COVID-19; risk volatility; fintech; traditional finance; MMV-MFDFA. INVESTMENT DECISIONS; GARCH
A Nonlinear Autoregressive Distributed Lag (NARDL) Analysis of the FTSE and S&P500 Indexes. The paper features an examination of the link between the behaviour of the FTSE 100 and S & P500 Indexes in both an autoregressive distributed lag ARDL, plus a nonlinear autoregressive distributed lag NARDL framework. The attraction of NARDL is that it represents the simplest method available of modelling combined short- and long-run asymmetries. The bounds testing framework adopted means that it can be applied to stationary and non-stationary time series vectors, or combinations of both. The data comprise a daily FTSE adjusted price series, commencing in April 2009 and terminating in March 2021, and a corresponding daily S & P500 Index adjusted-price series obtained from Yahoo Finance. The data period includes all the gyrations caused by the Brexit vote in the UK, beginning with the vote to leave in 2016 and culminating in the actual agreement to withdraw in January 2020. It was then followed by the impact of the global spread of COVID-19 from the beginning of 2020. The results of the analysis suggest that movements in the contemporaneous levels of daily S & P500 Index levels have very significant effects on the behaviour of the levels of the daily FTSE 100 Index. They also suggest that negative movements have larger impacts than do positive movements in S & P500 levels, and that long-term multiplier impacts take about 10 days to take effect. These effects are supported by the results of quantile regression analysis. A key result is that weak form market efficiency does not apply in the second period.. NARDL; bounds tests; ARDL; FTSE; asymmetries; multiplier effects; S&P500. ERROR-CORRECTION; STOCK MARKETS; TIME-SERIES; UNIT-ROOT; COINTEGRATION; VOLATILITY; COMMON; BEHAVIOR; PRICES
From Time Series to Images: A GAF-ResNet-LSTM Framework for Asset Selection and Portfolio Optimization. Financial market forecasting in portfolio formation has increasingly drawn interest within machine learning due to its complex temporal dynamics and high volatility. While Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) have demonstrated efficacy in image-based tasks, their direct application to time series data remains limited. To address this, we propose a prediction-based portfolio optimization framework that converts stock price sequences into Gramian Angular Field (GAF) images, enabling spatial feature extraction via a ResNet. Temporal dependencies are captured using a long short term memory (LSTM) encoder, forming a hybrid GAF + ResNet-LSTM model. To be specific, this paper first applies these prediction models for asset preselection before portfolio construction. Then, this paper incorporates their predictive results in advancing nested clustered optimization (NCO) method, which clusters assets based on predictive confidence and allocates weights using intra-cluster optimization. In order to balance calibration and classification, training employs walk-forward validation and a composite loss combining mean squared error and directional accuracy. The empirical study is conducted on a dataset comprising 25 stocks from the National Stock Exchange of India, spanning January 2014 to January 2024, including periods of market disruption such as the COVID-19 crash. Thus the sample makes it possible to catch subtle market shift for model execution. Moreover, we compared the performance of the proposed model against equally weighted and mean-variance portfolios to underscore the advantages of the NCO model. The proposed model achieves a 21.05% annual return with a Sharpe ratio of 1.31, outperforming benchmark architectures. Empirical results demonstrate that the proposed technique significantly outperforms the benchmark portfolios, particularly for investors with a high risk-return preference. Statistical significance is further corroborated by t-tests. Based on these findings, we endorse the integration of our comprehensive portfolio optimization model into investment decision-making processes.. Portfolios; Optimization; Forecasting; Convolutional neural networks; Time series analysis; Long short term memory; Adaptation models; Feature extraction; Data models; Accuracy; Financial forecasting; GAF; LSTM; NCO; portfolio optimization; residual network. PREDICTION; NETWORKS; MODEL
The performance Islamic verses conventional mutual funds during extreme event: new evidence from Saudi Arabia. PurposeThis paper aims to compare the performance of Islamic and conventional mutual funds in Saudi Arabia, focusing on their behavior during extreme events such as the Global Financial Crisis (GFC) and the COVID-19 pandemic. It analyses risk-adjusted returns, volatility and spillover effects to provide insights into the resilience and performance of these fund types under varying market conditions.Design/methodology/approachThe study uses 22 years of data from 254 funds, covering 1,172 weekly intervals from 2000 to 2022. It uses financial ratios, panel data regression, CAPM, GARCH modeling, and Wavelet Coherence analysis to assess fund performance. The research examines four distinct periods: pre-GFC, during GFC, pre-COVID-19 and during COVID-19, allowing for a comprehensive evaluation across different market environments.FindingsIslamic mutual funds (IMFs) consistently outperformed conventional mutual funds (CMFs) in terms of returns and volatility during both the GFC and COVID-19 pandemic, demonstrating lower systematic risk. While CMFs exhibited slightly higher returns prior to the GFC, IMFs showed greater resilience during economic downturns. The study reveals that IMFs may be a more strategic choice for investors during periods of economic uncertainty due to their diversification benefits and lower risk profile.Research limitations/implicationsThe findings provide valuable insights for investors, fund managers and policymakers in understanding the performance dynamics of Islamic and conventional mutual funds during extreme market events. The research suggests that IMFs offer a potentially more stable investment option during economic crises, which could inform investment strategies and policy decisions in the Saudi Arabian financial market.Originality/valueThis study contributes to the understanding of mutual fund performance in the context of Islamic and conventional funds within Saudi Arabia, offering a comprehensive analysis across various economic cycles. It provides empirical evidence on the comparative resilience of Islamic mutual funds during extreme events, filling a gap in the literature on Islamic fund performance in emerging markets.. Islamic mutual funds; Conventional mutual funds; Risk-return analysis; Market volatility; CAPM; GARCH; Wavelet coherence. IMPACT
Performance analysis of metaheuristic and risk-averse optimization techniques for portfolio management under volatile markets. Investment management uses portfolio optimization to strategically allocate financial assets in order to maximize return and minimize risk. In markets characterized by volatility, investors are increasingly keen on finding newer ways that strike a proper balance between risk and returns. This article gives a brief literature review on portfolio optimization techniques for return enhancement and risk minimization with a very selective sample of high-performing stocks from the S&P 500 index. In particular, a combination of technical and fundamental studies was used to pick 51 out of the 98 equities for the sample. To find the best investment strategies with different risk-return profiles, this study examines the application of advanced methodologies such as Bacterial Foraging Optimization (BFO), Fireworks Optimization (FWA), Cat Swarm Optimization (CSO), Bat Optimization, and a mean-Conditional Value at Risk (mean-CVaR). We used transaction costs and out-of-sample validations to ensure that these methods are realistic and that the results hold up under different conditions. The VIX index was used to measure market condition, while CVaR, cumulative returns, volatility, and the Sharpe ratio were used to measure portfolio performance. The mean-CVaR approach emphasizes Conditional Value at Risk with evaluation based on portfolio return, risk, and Sharpe ratio. Results suggest that CSO performed best in balancing between risk and return: it had the highest risk-adjusted return and at the same time a good balance. On the other hand, the mean-CVaR model is especially suitable for prudential investment strategies because it minimizes risk and loss. The article hence contributes to the existing literature by highlighting and comparing rarely used metaheuristic methods of optimization in portfolio optimization. Additionally, CSO and BFO rank among the best for their efficiency and simplicity, allowing asset managers and investors to use them. Results reveal that during market interruptions like the ones caused by COVID-19, the mean-CVaR model behaves consistently. This lends credence to the idea that it could be useful for risk-averse investor education and trial-support portfolios. The study demonstrates intervals in which different optimization strategies are effective, allowing investors to make more prudent and educated decisions.. Portfolio optimization; Metaheuristic algorithms; Economic indicators; Downside risk; Mean-Variance model; Financial market; Cumulative return analysis. TECHNICAL ANALYSIS; MODEL; VARIANCE; SELECTION; PREDICTION; ALGORITHM; MACHINE
Between revolution and COVID-19: a comparative machine learning analysis for Tunisian banking sector. PurposeThis study aims to identify the context-dependent optimal machine learning (ML) model for forecasting Tunisia's bank stock price index during the Revolution and COVID-19 crises, and uses SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) analysis to uncover distinct, crisis-specific price drivers.Design/methodology/approachThe author evaluates eight ML models, including regularization techniques (Lasso, Ridge, Elastic Net), tree-based methods (Random Forest, eXtreme Gradient Boosting), Support Vector Regression and deep learning architectures (Long Short-Term Memory, Gated Recurrent Unit [GRU]), using five standard metrics. Model robustness is validated through statistical, economic and temporal stability tests. Finally, the author apply mean SHAP analysis to top performers to identify key predictors and supplemented by a feature stability analysis.FindingsThe analysis reveals a clear performance hierarchy contingent on crisis typology. Specifically, the GRU model achieved superior predictive accuracy during the high-volatility COVID-19 period, whereas Ridge regression demonstrated greater robustness during the prolonged political instability of the Revolution. SHAP interpretability confirmed that short-term moving averages dominated predictions during the pandemic, reflecting a market driven by momentum, while the Revolution period involved a more balanced reassessment of persistent risks, which Ridge's regularization effectively revealed.Practical implicationsThe findings provide market participants with a decisive, crisis-contingent forecasting rule. Specifically, a GRU model driven by technical indicators is recommended for fast-moving global crises like a pandemic, while a shift to a Ridge regression model is warranted during periods of protracted political instability to leverage its stability.Originality/valueTo the best of the authors' knowledge, this study presents the first comparative ML analysis of the Tunisian banking sector across two fundamentally different crises, the Revolution that sparked the Arab Spring and the COVID-19 pandemic, using SHAP analysis to uncover crisis-specific financial drivers complemented by several robustness checks.. COVID-19; Tunisian revolution; Machine learning; Stock price prediction; C53; C88; G01; G14; G17. ARTIFICIAL NEURAL-NETWORK; STOCK-MARKET; POLITICAL UNCERTAINTY; PREDICTING STOCK; REGRESSION; RISK; SELECTION; MOVEMENT; BEHAVIOR; PRICES
Forecasting value-at-risk and expected shortfall in emerging market: does forecast combination help?. PurposeThis paper investigates how various strategies for combining forecasts, both simple and optimised approaches, are compared with popular individual risk models in estimating value-at-risk (VaR) and expected shortfall (ES) in emerging market at alternative risk levels.Design/methodology/approachUsing the case study of the Vietnamese stock market, the author produced one-day-ahead VaR and ES forecast from seven individual risk models and ten alternative forecast combinations. Next, the author employed a battery of backtesting procedures and alternative loss functions to evaluate the global predictive accuracy of the different methods. Finally, the author investigated the relative performance over time of VaR and ES forecasts using fluctuation test.FindingsThe empirical results indicate that, although combined forecasts have reasonable predictive abilities, they are often outperformed by one individual risk model. Furthermore, the author showed that the complex combining methods with optimised weighting functions do not perform better than simple combining methods. The fluctuation test suggests that the poor performance of combined forecasts is mainly due to their inability to cope with periods of instability.Research limitations/implicationsThis study reveals the limitation of combining strategies in the one-day-ahead VaR and ES forecasts in emerging markets. A possible direction for further research is to investigate whether this finding holds for multi-day ahead forecasts. Moreover, the inferior performance of combined forecasts during periods of instability motivates further research on the combining strategies that take into account for potential structure breaks in the performance of individual risk models. A potential approach is to improve the individual risk models with macroeconomic variables using a mixed-data sampling approach.Originality/valueFirst, the authors contribute to the literature on the forecasting combinations for VaR and ES measures. Second, the author explored a wide range of alternative risk models to forecast both VaR and ES with recent data including periods of the COVID-19 pandemic. Although forecast combination strategies have been providing several good results in several fields, the literature of forecast combination in the VaR and ES context is surprisingly limited, especially for emerging market returns. To the best of the author's knowledge, this is the first study investigating predictive power of combining methods for VaR and ES in an emerging market.. Value at risk; Expected shortfall; Forecast combination; C22; E47; G17. MODELS; VOLATILITY; ELICITABILITY; RETURNS; CAVIAR
Evolution of temporal fluctuation scaling exponent in nonstationary time series using supersymmetric theory of stochastic dynamics. Temporal fluctuation scaling (TFS) is an emergent property of complex systems that relates the variance (E-32) and the mean (M1) from an empirical data set in the form E-32 similar to M1 alpha TFS, where the dispersion (fluctuation) of the data has been described in terms of E-32. At present, it has been shown that this law of complex systems has different multidisciplinary applications such as characterizing the market rate based on its exponent, explaining the spatial spread of a pandemic or measuring dispersion in a counting process, among others, if it is known how the average value M1 of a representative quantity in a system changes. Then, using the path integral formalism and Parisi-Sourlas method, we propose an extension of path integral formalism to understand the origin of the temporal fluctuation scaling and the evolution of its exponent over time in nonstationary time series. To this end, we first show how the probability of transition between two states of a stochastic variable x(t) can be expressed once it is known its cumulant generating function. Also, we introduce a nonlinear term in a cumulant generating function of the form H(n)(p, t; gamma ) pn to obtain a model where the nth moment of the probability distribution evolves arbitrarily. Subsequently, in order to reproduce the temporal fluctuation scaling, a linear combination of H(n)(p, t; gamma ) with n is an element of {1, 2} is used. Therefore this allows describing how the mean M1(t) and the variance E-32(t) of empirical time series evolve. Thence, an analytical expression is deduced for the evolution of the temporal evolution of the temporal fluctuation scaling exponent alpha TFS(t). Likewise, the validity of the expression found for alpha TFS(t) is verified with a toy model based on white noise. Finally, this approach is verified in two stock indices (Dow Jones and Sao Paulo stock index) and two currencies (GBP-USD and EUR-USD) with daily data. It is found that this approach accurately captures the evolution of the mean and variance of these four financial derivatives after contrasting the results with a coefficient of determination that depends on H(n)(p, t; gamma ). Also, it is shown that the temporal fluctuation scaling exponent is a measure of uncertainty or volatility in financial time series.. LAW; DISTRIBUTIONS; SYSTEMS; MODEL
Dynamic network analysis of stock indices in the Americas. PurposeThis study examines dynamic interdependence among stock indices in the Americas and the effects of global crises on these interdependencies that underline contagion patterns across developed and emerging markets.Design/methodology/approachA Dynamic Conditional Correlation (DCC-EGARCH) model is applied to measure time-varying correlations among stock indices from countries in the Americas. Network measures-Normalized Tree Length (NTL), Average Path Length (APL) and Mean Occupation Layer (MOL)-are used to track shifts in market connectivity. At the same time, the Bai and Perron test is used to identify structural changes linked to global events such as COVID-19.FindingsResults show that crises increase market cohesion across the Americas, indicated by lower NTL and MOL values. This enhanced connectivity suggests that stock markets respond more synchronously during high-volatility periods, with the United States often central to the contagion network.Originality/valueThis study contributes to financial contagion research by applying dynamic network analysis to the Americas, offering tools to identify systemic risks. The findings provide insights for policymakers and investors into managing contagion risks in interconnected markets. Prop & oacute;sitoEste estudio examina la interdependencia din & aacute;mica entre los & iacute;ndices accionarios el continente americano y los efectos de las crisis globales en estas interdependencias que subrayan los patrones de contagio en los mercados desarrollados y emergentes.Dise & ntilde;o/metodolog & iacute;a/enfoqueSe aplica un modelo de correlaci & oacute;n condicional din & aacute;mica (DCC-EGARCH) para medir las correlaciones que var & iacute;an en el tiempo entre los & iacute;ndices accionarios de los pa & iacute;ses del continente americano. Se utilizan medidas de red (longitud de & aacute;rbol normalizada [NTL], longitud de trayectoria promedio [APL] y capa de ocupaci & oacute;n media [MOL]) para rastrear los cambios en la conectividad del mercado. Al mismo tiempo, se emplea la prueba de Bai y Perron para identificar cambios estructurales vinculados a eventos globales como el COVID-19.ResultadosLos resultados muestran que las crisis aumentan la cohesi & oacute;n del mercado en el continente americano, lo que se indica mediante valores de NTL y MOL m & aacute;s bajos. Esta conectividad mejorada sugiere que los mercados accionarios responden de manera m & aacute;s sincronizada durante los per & iacute;odos de alta volatilidad. Estados Unidos suele ser central en la red de contagio.Originalidad/valorEste estudio contribuye a la investigaci & oacute;n sobre el contagio financiero al aplicar el an & aacute;lisis din & aacute;mico de redes en el continente americano, ofreciendo herramientas para identificar riesgos sist & eacute;micos. Los hallazgos brindan informaci & oacute;n a los responsables de las pol & iacute;ticas y a los inversores para gestionar los riesgos de contagio en mercados interconectados.Prop & oacute;sitoEste estudio examina la interdependencia din & aacute;mica entre los & iacute;ndices accionarios el continente americano y los efectos de las crisis globales en estas interdependencias que subrayan los patrones de contagio en los mercados desarrollados y emergentes.Dise & ntilde;o/metodolog & iacute;a/enfoqueSe aplica un modelo de correlaci & oacute;n condicional din & aacute;mica (DCC-EGARCH) para medir las correlaciones que var & iacute;an en el tiempo entre los & iacute;ndices accionarios de los pa & iacute;ses del continente americano. Se utilizan medidas de red (longitud de & aacute;rbol normalizada [NTL], longitud de trayectoria promedio [APL] y capa de ocupaci & oacute;n media [MOL]) para rastrear los cambios en la conectividad del mercado. Al mismo tiempo, se emplea la prueba de Bai y Perron para identificar cambios estructurales vinculados a eventos globales como el COVID-19.ResultadosLos resultados muestran que las crisis aumentan la cohesi & oacute;n del mercado en el continente americano, lo que se indica mediante valores de NTL y MOL m & aacute;s bajos. Esta conectividad mejorada sugiere que los mercados accionarios responden de manera m & aacute;s sincronizada durante los per & iacute;odos de alta volatilidad. Estados Unidos suele ser central en la red de contagio.Originalidad/valorEste estudio contribuye a la investigaci & oacute;n sobre el contagio financiero al aplicar el an & aacute;lisis din & aacute;mico de redes en el continente americano, ofreciendo herramientas para identificar riesgos sist & eacute;micos. Los hallazgos brindan informaci & oacute;n a los responsables de las pol & iacute;ticas y a los inversores para gestionar los riesgos de contagio en mercados interconectados.. Financial networks; American stock indices; Dynamic correlation; Contagion; DCC-EGARCH model; Redes financieras; & Iacute;ndices burs & aacute;tiles americanos; Correlaci & oacute;n din & aacute;mica; Contagio; Modelo DCC-EGARCH; G01; G15; C32; F36. CONDITIONAL HETEROSKEDASTICITY; CONTAGION; MARKETS
Volatility transmission within financial markets during the COVID-19 pandemic: are faith-based investors well off in Tunisia?. Purpose This paper aims to investigate the risk-return and volatility spillover within the Tunisian stock market during the COVID-19 pandemic analyzing both the Islamic and conventional stocks' performance. Design/methodology/approach Both symmetric (GARCH and GARCH-M) and asymmetric (Threshold GARCH and Exponential GARCH) models are used to analyze the market returns and volatility response. Standard and Poor's (S&P) index has been used to test both the Islamic and conventional stocks within the Tunisian stock market. Findings The findings suggest that both Tunisia Islamic and conventional stock markets are highly persistent; however, the conventional stock index showed a negative return spillover on the Islamic stocks during the pandemic. The conventional stock index has also shown a higher exposure to risk for a lower amount of return, and evidence of potential diversification benefit between both indexes was found during the pandemic, whereas the Islamic market showed a positive leverage effect, indicating a positive correlation between past return and future return; the conventional index implied a negative leverage effect. Originality/value The value of this paper emerges in studying three main aspects that are specific to the Tunisian stock market. This includes COVID-19 effect of return spillovers, volatility transmission across both conventional and Islamic stock market within the local financial market.. Volatility spillover; COVID-19; Islamic index; Conventional index; EGARCH; GARCH-M; Asymmetry; Tunisia; G01; G17. STOCK-MARKET; CORONAVIRUS; RETURNS
Impact of coronavirus pandemic on stock index: A polynomial regression with time delay. Motivation: Under contemporary market conditions in China, the stock index has been volatile and highly reflect trends in the coronavirus pandemic, but rare scientific research has been conducted to model the possible nonlinear relations between the two indicators. Added, on the advent that covid-related news in one time period impacts the stock market in another period, time delay can be an equally good predictor of the stock index but rarely investigated. Objectives: To contribute to filling the gaps identified in existing research, this study models relationship between the stock market index and coronavirus pandemic by leveraging volatility in the stock market and covid data through time delay and best degree in a polynomial environment. The resultant optimal time delay and best degree model is used to derive a high-accuracy prediction of stock market index. Novelty: In line with the possible relations, the novelty of this study is that it proposes, validates and implements polynomial regression with time delay to model nonlinear relationship between the stock index and covid. Methods: This study utilizes high-frequency data from January 2020 to the first week of July 2022 to model the nonlinear relationship between the stock index, new covid cases and time delay under polynomial regression environment. Findings: The empirical results show that time delay and new covid cases, when modelled in a polynomial environment with optimal degree and delay, do present better representation of the nonlinear relationship such predictors have with stock index for China. Relative to results from the polynomial regression without delay, the empirical evidence from the model with delay show that an optimal time delay of 17 weeks makes it possible to predict the stock index at high accuracy and record improvements of 16-fold or higher. The representative delay model is used to project for up to 17 weeks for future trends in the stock index. Implication: The implication of the findings herein is that the prowess of the time delay polynomial regression is heavily dependent on instability in covid-related time trends and that researchers and decision-makers should consider modeling to cover for the unsteadiness in coronavirus cases to achieve better results.. Coronavirus pandemic; High-frequency data; Stock index; Polynomial regression; Time delay; Forecasting. MARKET EVIDENCE; COVID-19
Dependence dynamics of stock markets during COVID-19. Stock markets have exhibited increased returns connectedness during the COVID-19 period. We examine the returns dependence among 42 stock markets classified under various emerging and developed groupings. We apply several dependence measures to examine the returns connectedness among the markets. Our results show that stock markets from the G-7 and Emerging Frontier and Asian (EFA) region exhibit high connectedness with other international markets, while Middle East and North African (MENA) and Latin American (LA) stock markets offer high diversification opportunities through low returns connectedness. The returns coherence of Central and East European (CEE) and G-7 markets increase significantly during the COVID-19 period which supports the hypothesis of contagion. However, during the pandemic MENA stock markets (excluding Greece) and most EFA markets (excluding China, Singapore and Korea) remain less cointegrated with other international equity markets. Our results have implications for individual and institutional investors, fund managers and other financial market stakeholders.. Stock markets; Connectedness; Dependence; COVID-19; Developed; Emerging. LATIN-AMERICAN; VOLATILITY TRANSMISSION; FINANCIAL CRISES; CAPITAL-MARKETS; INTEGRATION; SPILLOVERS; CONTAGION; LINKAGES; DIVERSIFICATION; US
Volatility Spillover and Risk Measurement of Southeast Asian Financial Markets. Objective: this study aims to examine volatility transmission in ASEAN-5 financial markets during 2019-2023, covering pre-pandemic, pandemic, and post-pandemic phases, to analyze the impact of COVID-19 and other external factors, such as political crises and geopolitical tensions, on these interconnected markets. Methods: using AR-GARCH and VECM models, the study analyzed aggregated stock index data from the five countries, with a focus on volatility spillovers and value at risk (VaR) levels to assess both short- and long-term interdependencies. Results: the findings reveal substantial volatility transmission among ASEAN-5 markets, indicating significant financial interdependencies that heighten regional risk, especially during periods of global disruption. VaR results further suggest that the Indonesian stock market (JKSE) carries a higher risk profile, reflecting the impact of local economic conditions and regional interconnectivity. Conclusions: the study underscores the need for investors to account for volatility transmission in risk management, especially given the COVID-19 pandemic and geopolitical factors. Strong market interconnectivity within the ASEAN-5 may limit the effectiveness of cross-market diversification, highlighting the importance of regional risk mitigation and coordinated policies.. volatility spillover; value at risk; GARCH; ASEAN-5 financial market; risk measurement
Twitter-based market uncertainty and global stock volatility predictability. This study integrates Twitter-based market uncertainty (TMU) into the predictive framework of daily volatility in twenty international equity markets. The study reveals that TMU has a strong predictive ability for stock volatility from both in- and out-of-sample perspectives. Interestingly, despite Twitter being inaccessible in China, the interconnectedness of global financial markets allows it to indirectly impact China's stock market volatility. The research also highlights that TMU plays a particularly significant role in forecasting stock market volatility during turbulent periods, such as the COVID-19 epidemic. Furthermore, integrating TMU into the volatility prediction framework leads to an improvement in economic value. These findings are essential for policymakers to develop effective market-stabilizing policies and for investors to enhance the management of their investment portfolios.. Volatility forecast; Uncertainty; Twitter; Out-of-sample; Predictive regression. REALIZED VOLATILITY; PERFORMANCE; SAMPLE; TESTS
Assessing Financial Risk Spillover and Panic Impact of Covid-19 on European and Vietnam Stock market. This study examined the influence of tail risks on global financial markets, which aids in better understanding of the emergence of COVID-19. This study looks at the global and Vietnamese stock markets impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic to identify systemic emergencies. Risk dependent value (CoVaR) and Delta link VaR are two important tail-related risk indicators used in Conditional Bivariate Dynamic Correlation (DCC) (CoVaR). The empirical findings demonstrate that when COVID-19's worldwide spread widens, the volatility transmission of systemic risks across the global stock market and multiple exchanges shifts and becomes more relevant over time. At the time of COVID-19, the world industrial market was larger than the Vietnamese stock market, and the Vietnamese stock market posed a lesser danger to the global market. A closer examination of the link between the Vietnam value-at-risk (VaR) range index sample and the world stock index indicates a significant degree of downside risk integration in key monetary systems, particularly during the COVID-19 era. Our study findings may help regulators, politicians, and portfolio risk managers in Vietnam and worldwide during the unique moment of uncertainty created by the COVID-19 epidemic.. COVID-19; Vietnam and global; Stock; Markets; Systemic; Risk; CoVaR; Delta CoVaR; Connectedness
Beware of Extreme Investor Sentiments! Indian Evidence on the Performance of Neuro-specific Options Volatility Trading Strategies on the Facets of COVID-19. This study investigates the dynamic relationship between noise trader sentiment and excessive volatility in the Indian financial market during the COVID-19 outbreak. It proposes novel options trading strategies to ensure profitability in times of irrational exuberance and to satisfy diverse investment requirements of volatility traders, which arise from the varying levels of stimulating neurotransmitters, namely dopamine and serotonin in the human body. Empirical results show that the incremental information content of sentiment measures is vital in forecasting future volatility and the proposed options trading strategies effectively accomplish the neuro-specific intentions of the traders during extreme volatility in the Indian equity market. JEL Codes: G12, G13. Volatility; investor sentiment; NSE NIFTY 50 index; options volatility trading strategies; neurofinance; neuro-specific volatility trading strategies. STOCK-MARKET; SPILLOVER
Resilience amidst turmoil: a multi-resolution analysis of portfolio diversification in emerging markets during global financial and health crises. Using Wavelet Coherence, Frequency Interconnectedness and Spillover methodologies, this study investigates the dynamic comovements and spillover effects between emerging markets (BRICS and Turkiye) with a specific emphasis on the effects of the GFC and COVID-19 pandemic. It aims to compare the impact of these events on portfolio diversification in the equity markets from the perspective of international equity investors. The results indicate that the stock markets are positively interlinked and depend on the time and frequency of returns. Significant correlations among the equity markets and a spike in overall spillover are also evident in the recent period due to the COVID-19 pandemic. These findings can be useful for policymakers and investors in their decision making.. Capital markets; Equities; Wavelet coherence; Interconnectedness; BRICS; Turkey; C40; C58; F15; F21; F36; G11; G15. IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; VOLATILITY SPILLOVERS; STOCK MARKETS; WAVELET COHERENCE; BRICS; CONTAGION; CONNECTEDNESS; COMOVEMENTS; DYNAMICS; RETURN
Jumps and stock market variance during the COVID-19 pandemic: Evidence from international stock markets. Based on the work of Buncic and Gisler (2017), this paper investigates whether the roles of jump components will change in forecasting the volatility of international equity markets during the COVID-19 pandemic. Interestingly, in contrast to the conclusions of Buncic and Gisler (2017), we find jump components of the international equity indices are useful to predict the international stock markets' volatility during the COVID-19 pandemic. Our study tries to provide new evidence of jump components in stock markets.. Jump components; International stock markets; The COVID-19 pandemic; Volatility forecasting; HAR model; Jump components; International stock markets; The COVID-19 pandemic; Volatility forecasting; HAR model. VOLATILITY MODELS; COMPONENT; RETURNS; PREMIUM; TESTS
Asymmetric Volatility Connectedness Among G7 Stock Markets. This paper investigates the asymmetries in volatility connectedness among the G7 stock markets. We provide ample evidence for asymmetric volatility connectedness based on daily realized semi -volatility indices obtained from intra-day data. We find that the impact of bad volatility strictly dominates that of good volatility in generating connectedness across financial markets. The global financial crisis, the European debt crisis, and the COVID-19 pandemic have witnessed the most influential episodes of volatility connectedness. We also discuss that the effect of the US stock market on other countries has been caused primarily by bad volatility.. asymmetric connectedness; realized semi-volatility; G7 stock markets. SPILLOVERS; BAD; RETURN
Multifractal Behaviors of Stock Indices and Their Ability to Improve Forecasting in a Volatility Clustering Period. The financial market is a complex system, which has become more complicated due to the sudden impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020. As a result there may be much higher degree of uncertainty and volatility clustering in stock markets. How does this black swan event affect the fractal behaviors of the stock market? How to improve the forecasting accuracy after that? Here we study the multifractal behaviors of 5-min time series of CSI300 and S&P500, which represents the two stock markets of China and United States. Using the Overlapped Sliding Window-based Multifractal Detrended Fluctuation Analysis (OSW-MF-DFA) method, we found that the two markets always have multifractal characteristics, and the degree of fractal intensified during the first panic period of pandemic. Based on the long and short-term memory which are described by fractal test results, we use the Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU) neural network model to forecast these indices. We found that during the large volatility clustering period, the prediction accuracy of the time series can be significantly improved by adding the time-varying Hurst index to the GRU neural network.. multifractal; forecasting; OSW-MF-DFA; GRU neural network; stock index time series. MARKET-EFFICIENCY; LONG MEMORY; CHINESE
Tail-event driven NETwork dependence in emerging markets. This paper employs the Tail Event NETwork (TENET) to identify financial markets with greater potential risk, and simultaneously investigate the interdependence between them. We find strong time-varying connectedness across 23 emerging markets during the main crisis episodes, including the most recent COVID-19 pandemic, using data from January 1995 to May 2021. The network analysis revealed that emerging European markets are top risk transmitters, whereas emerging Asian markets are top risk receivers. China showed disconnection from the network, reflecting its diversification potential for investors. Our findings offer several policy and regu-latory implications.. COVID-19; Emerging markets; Global financial crisis; Systemic risk network; TENET. GLOBAL FINANCIAL CRISIS; VOLATILITY SPILLOVERS; STOCK MARKETS; SYSTEMIC RISK; INTERNATIONAL DIVERSIFICATION; EQUITY MARKETS; RETURN; UNCERTAINTY; CHINA; ECONOMIES
Evidence of Stock Market Contagion during the COVID-19 Pandemic: A Wavelet-Copula-GARCH Approach. In this study, we propose a wavelet-copula-GARCH procedure to investigate the occurrence of cross-market linkages during the COVID-19 pandemic. To explore cross-market linkages, we distinguish between regular interdependence and pure contagion, and associate changes in the correlation between stock market returns at higher frequencies with contagion, whereas changes at lower frequencies are associated with interdependence that relates to spillovers of shocks resulting from the normal interdependence between markets. An empirical analysis undertaken on six major stock markets reveals evidence of long-run interdependence between the markets under consideration before the start of the COVID-19 pandemic in December 2019. However, after the health crisis began, strong evidence of pure contagion among stock markets was detected.. stock market contagion; COVID-19 pandemic; wavelet decomposition; copula-GARCH models. FINANCIAL CONTAGION; EQUITY MARKETS; INTERDEPENDENCE; VOLATILITY; DEPENDENCE; SPILLOVERS; LINKAGES; IMPACT; CRISES; RETURN
Investment Implications from the Analysis of Dynamic Conditional Correlations between Stock Index and Stock Index ETFs in China. Purpose - With the rapid expansion of ETFs around the world, various index ETFs have been introduced and significantly grown in China. This paper attempts to investigate the dynamic conditional correlation among stock indexes and ETFs in China, which are assumed to be closely related in nature. Design/Methodology - This paper examines the dynamic conditional correlation among the Chinese CSI 300 Index, AMC CSI 300 ETF Index, and E Fund Seeded CSI 300 ETF Index using the ARMA DCC GARCH model. Findings - Numerous studies provide evidence that abnormal shocks in advanced stock markets, such as US and EU markets, disseminate to the indexes and index ETFs in a different manner. This paper shows that the dynamic conditional correlation among these indexes is quite strong, suggesting the presence of co-movement. Additionally, stronger co-movement is observed during financial crises, such as the China stock market crash in 2015 and the COVID-19 pandemic after 2020. Our study highlights that although the AMC CSI 300 ETF and the E Fund Seed CSI 300 ETF Index track the China CSI 300 Index, they exhibit different patterns at specific moments, such as financial crises, stock market crashes, and the COVID-19 epidemic. Originality/value - The results of this paper provides insight into the dynamic co-movement of China's Index ETFs. The findings in this paper will also offer implications for investment strategies and risk management for Korean passive institutional investors with stakes in Chinese stock indexes and ETFs in the asset allocation process.. ARMA-DCC-GARCH Model; China Stock Market; Dynamic Conditional Correlation. PRICE DISCOVERY; GARCH MODEL; VOLATILITY; MARKETS; HETEROSCEDASTICITY; EFFICIENCY; FUTURES; RETURN
Commonality in BRICS stock markets' reaction to global economic policy uncertainty: Evidence from a panel GARCH model with cross sectional dependence. The rapid growth of BRICS has increasingly integrated their markets into the global economy. Thus, making their financial markets more vulnerable to external shocks. This study examines BRICS stock markets' response to global economic policy uncertainty using a panel GARCH model. The results show that global economic policy uncertainty significantly raises volatility with homogeneous response across the markets. The findings also suggests that COVID-19 has amplified the adverse impact of the uncertainties on prices and volatility. One major implication of the findings is that the BRICS can develop a joint policy for mitigating policy uncertainties spillovers.. Stock market returns; Economic policy uncertainty; Panel GARCH; Market integration; Homogenous; BRICS; Emerging market. GEOPOLITICAL RISKS; G7; RETURNS
Intraday Volatility Spillovers among European Financial Markets during COVID-19. During crises, stock market volatility generally rises sharply, and as consequence, spillovers are identified across markets. This study estimates the volatility spillover among twelve European stock markets representing all four regions of Europe. The data consists of 10,990 intraday observations from 2 December 2019 to 29 May 2020. Using the methodology of Diebold and Yilmaz, we use static and rolling windows to characterize five-minute volatility spillovers. Our results show that 77.80% of intraday volatility forecast error variance in twelve European markets comes from spillovers. Furthermore, the highest gross directional volatility spillovers are found in Sweden and the Netherlands, while the minimum spillovers to other stock markets are observed in the stock markets of Poland and Ireland. However, German and Dutch markets transmit the highest net directional volatility spillovers. Splitting the whole sample in pre- and post-pandemic declaration (11 March 2020) we find more stable spillovers in the latter. The findings reveal important information about European stock market interdependence during COVID-19, which will be beneficial to both policy-makers and practitioners.. COVID-19; European Union; high frequency data; spillovers; stock markets
A trans-national comparison of stock market movements and related social media chatter during the COVID-19 pandemic. The outbreak of the SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) pandemic first identified in 2019 has had long-term ramifications across global financial markets. We have seen stock markets across countries falling to historical lows and then recovering back during the pandemic. Prior research has established that human emotions can significantly influence financial markets. In particular, social media discussions or online Word-of-mouth (OWoM) minutely reflect public emotions and opinions associated with global market volatility. In this study, we use a quantitative approach to explore the relationship between discussions in twitter, a popular micro-blogging online platform and stock market performance across different countries, in order to understand the disaster-triggered behavioural responses of common investors across the globe. We analyse the association of national stock-indices, sentiment polarity and discussion subjectivity in Covid-19-related tweets originating in India, US, Italy, UK, Australia, Nigeria and South Africa during February 2020- January 2021 period. Using a combination of multiple analytics methods, our study examines: (i) linear and lagged association between OWoM and market performance; and (ii) heterogeneity in the OWoM-market relationship across the seven countries. Our results show weak but statistically significant correlation between OWoM subjectivity and polarity and stock market returns across countries. Our findings also show differential temporal association of OWoM and market returns across countries. Our study shows stock market connectedness between pairs of countries, some simultaneously varying while others varying with a time lag, and the strength of such connectedness increases during global disasters such as the COVID-19 pandemic.. Natural language processing; polarity; content subjectivity; market indices; stock return predictability; market performance during disasters. SENTIMENT
Global Stock Market Volatility and Its Spillover on the Indian Stock Market: A Study Before and During the COVID-19 Period. This study investigates the impact of global stock market volatility on the Indian stock markets before and during the COVID-19 pandemic period. The study focuses on 11 stock markets, including Brazil, Canada, China, France, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Russia, Turkey, the UK, and the US, and applies the threshold generalized autoregressive conditional heteroskedasticity (TGARCH) model to capture the current asymmetry in returns influenced by past negative/positive shocks, and the diagonal Baba Engle Kraft Kroner (BEKK) model to examine the cohesion of the Indian equity market with global markets. The importance of the Indian stock market lies in its ability to provide capital to companies, attract foreign investment, and provide investment opportunities for both domestic and international investors. Data for the study was sourced from https://www.investing.com for the period September 2019 to September 2021 and Stata software was used for data analysis. The study finds that Brazil, Canada, France, Russia, UK, and the USA are the primary sources of financial weight on India's stock returns. The results suggest that Indian investors can diversify their funds into other asset classes while restricting investments in these markets, particularly during downturns. Investors can make informed decisions to diversify their portfolio and minimize risk. The results can also benefit society by promoting a more stable and resilient financial system. The study can also be expanded to include other financial and economic indicators such as inflation and interest rates to provide a more comprehensive analysis of the impact of global market volatility on Indian equity markets.. COVID-19; diagonal-BEKK model; spillover; TGARCH model; volatility
Contagion, interdependence and global crisis: Evidence from equity markets. This paper examines the transmission of shocks between 55 global equity markets over the major crisis episodes, such as the 2007-2009 global financial crisis and the COVID-19 pandemic. Employing a factor model incorporating U.S., global, and domestic market factors, we find five dominant transmission channels: domestic banking sector exposure, banking system default risk, external exposure, domestic market fundamentals, and global equity market volatility. Our results show an increase in market co-movement during crises, largely explained by the U.S. factor, followed by the global factor. Some evidence for non-fundamental contagion is also present in certain markets. Though risk transmission channels differ by region and factor, the findings suggest that external exposures through international banking linkages and financial integration are the major conduits for contagion. Global equity market volatility and current account imbalances also figure prominently as sources of spillovers, particularly within European markets. Overall, our analysis highlights the predominant role of external factors and the strength of domestic macroeconomic fundamentals in determining shock transmission during crises. These results provide important guidance to investors for effective portfolio strategies and policymakers for mitigating contagion risks, highlighting the role of macroeconomic stability and cautious financial integration in minimizing vulnerability during turbulent times.. Contagion; Interdependence; Risk premia; Equity markets; Crisis transmission. FINANCIAL CRISIS; STOCK-MARKET; VOLATILITY; RISK; PURE
COVID-19 and Islamic Stock Index: Evidence of Market Behavior and Volatility Persistence. The aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic is not limited to human lives and health sectors. It has also changed social and economic aspects of the world. This study investigated the Islamic stock market's reaction and changes in volatility before and during this pandemic. The market model of event study methodology was employed to analyze Islamic stock market reactions in nine different markets around the globe. To examine changes in volatility and persistence of risk, the generalized autoregressive conditional heteroscedasticity (GARCH) method was used. Nine Islamic stock indices were selected for this study from the Thomson Reuters data stream. The results suggest that, in the short run, the Islamic Australian stock index and Islamic GCC stock index remained stable for the first 15 days following news of the pandemic. The Islamic stock indexes of Qatar, UAE, ASEAN, MENA, MENASA, and Bahrain were significantly affected by the outbreak in the short-term. On the other hand, the volatility of Islamic stock indices was substantially amplified after the global health crisis was declared by the WHO. Moreover, volatility shocks tended to persist for a longer period after COVID-19.. Islamic stocks; COVID-19; abnormal return; volatility. SPILLOVERS; MODELS
Forecasting Volatility of Australian Stock Market Applying WTC-DCA-Informer Framework. This article proposed a novel hybrid framework, the WTC-DCA-Informer, for forecasting volatility in the Australian stock market. The findings indicated that (1) through a comprehensive comparison with various machine learning and deep learning models, the proposed WTC-DCA-Informer framework significantly outperformed traditional methods in terms of predictive performance. (2) Across different training set proportions, the WTC-DCA-Informer model demonstrated exceptional forecasting capabilities, achieving a coefficient of determination (R-2) as high as 0.9216 and a mean absolute percentage error (MAPE) as low as 13.6947%. (3) The model exhibited strong adaptability and robustness in responding to significant market fluctuations and structural changes before and after the outbreak of COVID-19. This study offers a new perspective and tool for forecasting financial market volatility, with substantial theoretical and practical implications for enhancing the efficiency and stability of financial markets.. Australian stock market; hybrid model; volatility forecasting; WTC-DCA-informer. ECONOMETRIC-MODELS; LONG MEMORY; HYBRID; BREAKS
How the effective reproductive number impacts global stock markets. The pandemic caused by the novel coronavirus COVID-19 has impact the economies of countries across the world. In a short period of time, researchers have begun to analyse the effect of the pandemic on global stock markets. Although the most known measurements of COVID-19 are the number of new cases and deaths, there are more robust indicators. In particular, the effective reproductive number is one of the most important indicators to analyse the pandemic which indicates the degree to which the spread is under control. In this paper, we assess the impact that the Effective Reproductive Number (Rt) has on 26 countries around the world (32 stock market indexes) comparing the performance of various forms of Generalized AutoRegressive Conditional Heteroskedasticity models. The results demonstrate that of the 32 stock markets analysed, 37.5% had a negative effect with respect to Rt and only in 12.5% of the cases was the effect of the variation of Rt positive. This implies that in more than a third of the stock markets analysed as the pandemic progressed uncontrolled the result was a decrease in the value of the market index. The 11 of the 26 countries analysed had a negative and significant effect (Brazil, Germany, Indonesia, Israel, Italy, Japan, Russia, South Korea, Sweden, Taiwan, and United States). Findings suggest that the Effective Reproductive Number volatility had a significant impact on 10 of the 26 countries analysed (38.5%) (Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, India, Italy, Mexico, Russia, Singapore and United Kingdom).. COVID19; effective reproductive number; Garch models; stock markets; volatility. COVID-19
Markets Dependence in Times of Turmoil: Evidence from US and Asia-Pacific Stock Markets. The US stock market collapse of 2020 was caused by the COVID-19 shock, exerting profound impacts on global stock markets. In this article, we analyze the downside and upside contagion and the tail dependence risks of the US stock market index on China, Hong Kong, Japan, and South Korea. We establish our empirical findings through a robust modelization of a conditional VaR (CoVaR), CoVaR, and copula models. The empirical results reveal wide spillover effects from the US to East Asian stock markets. These spillover effects are aggravated in the COVID-19 period when compared to the full sample period. This impact deluges to the Chinese market only via Hong Kong. The findings show that indirect spillovers on the Chinese stock market are heavier than direct spillovers. The study highlights different features of the US and Chinese spillovers. These findings provide useful support for policymakers and risk managers involved in the East Asian stock markets.. Risk spillover; stock markets; volatility; copula quantile regression. VOLATILITY SPILLOVERS; SYSTEMIC RISK; COPULA; CONTAGION
Asymmetric volatility transmission across Northeast Asian stock markets. This paper investigates various aspects of asymmetric connectedness among the stock markets in China, Japan, and Korea. Based on the realized semi-volatility indices, we find that the impact of bad volatility strictly dominates good volatility in generating transmission across the Northeast Asian markets. We also present evidence that the impacts of the U.S. volatility shock on other countries have been due primarily to bad volatility. In the dynamic analysis, we observe highly volatile patterns in the connectedness measures with several peaks during major economic shocks. Most influential episodes of volatility connectedness have been witnessed, inter alia, during the global financial crisis and the European debt crisis. The recent COVID-19 pandemic has also caused turmoil by damaging the health of the global financial market.& nbsp;Copyright (C)& nbsp;2021, Borsa Istanbul Anonim Sirketi. Production and hosting by Elsevier B.V.& nbsp;. Asymmetric connectedness; Realized semi-volatility; HAR-RV model; Northeast Asian stock markets; COVID-19 pandemic. INTERNATIONAL TRANSMISSION; CONNECTEDNESS; SPILLOVERS; LINKAGES; MODEL; BAD; US
A revised approach to testing for asymmetric intermarket spillover effects. This paper applies a modified DCC framework to test for asymmetric intermarket spillover effects from the US to a sample of G7 stock markets following the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. The adjustment proposed in this research article addresses the shortcomings associated with the methodologies developed by, inter alia, Forbes and Rigobon (2002). The results demonstrate that spillover is less likely to propagate across highly developed and firmly integrated financial markets. IMPACT STATEMENT This study deals with the economic impact of stock markets and produces rigorous evidence regarding this impact on theoretical and empirical literature. We hope this study will significantly illuminate the theoretical and empirical research discussions on the links between stock markets and significant economic variables.. DCC; VAR; asymmetric volatility spillovers; heteroskedasticy; shock transmission mechanism; interdependence; COVID-19 pandemic. DYNAMIC CORRELATION-ANALYSIS; FINANCIAL CONTAGION; STOCK MARKETS; INTERDEPENDENCE; DETERMINANTS; CONTEXT
Using machine learning to analyze the impact of coronavirus pandemic news on the stock markets in GCC countries. COVID-19 has resulted in high volatility in financial markets across the world. The goal of this study is to investigate the impact of COVID-19-related news on the stock markets in Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries. The study utilizes machine learning approaches to assess the role of COVID-19 news in stock return predictability in these markets. The results reveal that the stock markets in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and Oman were impacted by coronavirus-related news; however, this news had no impact on the stocks in Bahrain. Moreover, the results indicate that the impacted markets were influenced differently in terms of the quantities and types of news.. COVID-19; Machine-learning; STOCK MARKETS; GCC. RETURNS; LIQUIDITY; RISK
A Comparative Analysis of Traditional and Machine Learning Methods in Forecasting the Stock Markets of China and the US. In the volatile and uncertain financial markets of the post-COVID-19 era, our study conducts a comparative analysis of traditional econometric models-specifically, the AutoRegressive Integrated Moving Average (ARIMA) and Holt's Linear Exponential Smoothing (Holt's LES)-against advanced machine learning techniques, including Support Vector Regression (SVR), Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) networks, and Gated Recurrent Units (GRU). Focused on the daily stock prices of the S&P 500 and SSE Index, the study utilizes a suite of metrics such as R-squared, RMSE, MAPE, and MAE to evaluate the forecasting accuracy of these methodologies. This approach allows us to explore how each model fares in capturing the complex dynamics of stock market movements in major economies like the U.S. and China amidst ongoing market fluctuations instigated by the pandemic. The findings reveal that while traditional models like ARIMA demonstrate strong predictive accuracy over short-term horizons, LSTM networks excel in capturing complex, non-linear patterns in the data, showcasing superior performance over longer forecast horizons. This nuanced comparison highlights the strengths and limitations of each model, with LSTM emerging as the most effective in navigating the unpredictable dynamics of post-pandemic financial markets. Our results offer crucial insights into optimizing forecasting methodologies for stock price predictions, aiding investors, policymakers, and scholars in making informed decisions amidst ongoing market challenges.. Machine learning; Holt's LES; SVR; LSTM; GRU
Network measurement and influence mechanism of dynamic risk contagion among global stock markets: Based on time-varying spillover index and complex network method. From a global and dynamic perspective, this paper conducts the network measurement of risk contagion among global stock markets by employing time-varying spillover index and complex network method. Furthermore, this paper investigates the influence mechanism of dynamic risk contagion, combining multiple factors such as financial opening, international trade, and crossborder capital flow. The results show that: (1) There exists a strong risk contagion effect among global stock markets, especially for developed countries, which have obvious time-varying characteristics in both direction and intensity. (2) The risk contagion effect is also highly eventdependent, which shows a rapid upward trend during extreme risk events such as the financial crisis and the COVID-19 epidemic. (3) Different economic and financial development situations lead to different risk contagion effects, and the ranking of countries with stronger risk effects remains at a stable level, which can prompt important risk events. (4) International trade, crossborder capital flow, financial market volatility, investor sentiment, and the US monetary policy are key influence mechanisms of dynamic risk contagion. However, financial opening and economic fundamentals are not statistically significant, which is contrary to our intuition.. Global stock markets; Dynamic risk contagion; Time-varying spillover index; Complex network method; Influence mechanism. FINANCIAL STRESS SPILLOVERS; SYSTEMIC RISK; CONNECTEDNESS; STABILITY; CHANNELS; BANKING
Covid-19 pandemic and spillover effects in stock markets: A financial network approach. This paper examines the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on 51 major stock markets, both emerging and developed. We isolated the countries susceptible to shock transmissions, and evaluated countries with immunity, during the lockdown. Specifically, using dependence dynamics and network analysis on a bivariate basis, we identify volatility and contagion risk among stock markets during the COVID-19 pandemic. The empirical findings add to the existing body of literature, given that previous work has not placed emphasis on network topologic metrics when it comes to financial networks, specifically during the COVID-19. The evidence shows instant financial contagion a result of the lockdown and the spread of the novel coronavirus. The methodological framework outlines important information for investors and policymakers on using financial networks to improve portfolio selection, by placing an emphasis on assets according to centrality.. COVID-19; Spillover effect; Dependence dynamics; Social network; Centralities. HIERARCHICAL STRUCTURE; EQUITY MARKETS; EXCHANGE-RATES; CONTAGION; INTERDEPENDENCE; VOLATILITY; EVOLUTION; DYNAMICS; CRISIS; RISK
VOLATILITY SPILLOVER BETWEEN GERMANY, FRANCE, AND CEE STOCK MARKETS. The CEE stock markets are more and more integrated in the European financial markets. The growth of the integration of financial markets favours the volatility and return spillover between them. The current study analyses the volatility spillover among the stock markets in the countries from Central and East Europe (CEE) and Germany and France with the aim to identify the pos-sibilities of reduction of a portfolio risk. A special attention is granted to the analysis during the pandemic caused by COVID-19. The time-varying parameter vector autoregressive (TVP-VAR) model on which is based the methodology proposed by Antonakakis and Gabauer (2017) is used to estimate the evolution in time of volatility spillover. The empirical results obtained for the period January 2001 - September 2021 highlight the increase in volatility spillover between the countries analysed when the pandemic caused by COVID-19 was confirmed. The lack of volatility integration of the markets analysed enables the making of arbitrages in order to reduce the risk of a portfolio. The results obtained are important in the management of financial asset portfolios.. stock markets; emerging markets; risk; volatility transmission; TVP-VAR; spillover index. IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; TIME-SERIES; UNIT-ROOT; TRANSMISSION; RETURN
Measuring conditional correlation between financial markets' inefficiency. Assuming that stock prices follow a multi-fractional Brownian motion, we estimated a time-varying Hurst exponent (ht). The Hurst value can be considered a relative volatility measure and has been recently used to estimate market inefficiency. Therefore, the Hurst exponent offers a level of comparison between theoretical and empirical market efficiency. Starting from this point of view, we adopted a multivariate conditional heteroskedastic approach for modeling inefficiency dynamics in various financial markets during the 2007 financial crisis, the COVID-19 pandemic and the Russo-Ukranian war. To empirically validate the analysis, we compared different stock markets in terms of conditional and unconditional correlations of dynamic inefficiency and investigated the predicted power of inefficiency measures through the Granger causality test.. Hurst exponent; efficient market hypothesis; dynamic conditional correlation; multivariate GARCH; Hurst-based GARCH. LONG-TERM-MEMORY; STOCK-MARKET; SELF-SIMILARITY; HURST EXPONENT; TIME-SERIES; EFFICIENCY; MODEL; COEFFICIENT; HYPOTHESIS; RETURNS
Volatility Modeling: An Overview of Equity Markets in the Euro Area during COVID-19 Pandemic. Volatility is the most widespread measure of risk. Volatility modeling allows investors to capture potential losses and investment opportunities. This work aims to examine the impact of the two waves of COVID-19 infections on the return and volatility of the stock market indices of the euro area countries. The study also focuses on other important aspects such as time-varying risk premium and leverage effect. This investigation employed the Threshold GARCH(1,1)-in-Mean model with exogenous dummy variables. Daily returns of the euro area stock markets indices from 4 January 2016 to 31 December 2020 has been used for the analysis. The results reveal that euro area stock markets respond differently to the COVID-19 pandemic. Specifically, the first wave of COVID-19 infections had a notable impact on stock market volatility of euro area countries with middle-large financial centres while the second wave had a significant impact only on stock market volatility of Belgium.. volatility; COVID-19 pandemic; GARCH models; euro area stock indices. GLOBAL FINANCIAL CRISIS; TIME-SERIES; STOCK MARKETS; CONTAGION; IMPACT
Stock market connectedness during an energy crisis: Evidence from South Africa. This study examines the within-industry and global volatility connectivity of the South African equity market during a major domestic energy crisis (load-shedding) and the COVID-19 pandemic. Using a time-varying parameter vector autoregressive model, we identify distinct patterns in volatility spillovers across periods of global and domestic crises. The onset of the COVID-19 pandemic increased interconnectedness between South Africa and global equity markets. In contrast, during domestic load-shedding, the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) became detached from international markets, highlighting the localized impact of this crisis. We find that the financial and energy industries are consistently net receivers and transmitters of shocks during both crises which demonstrate their systemic importance to South Africa. Our findings provide insights into the dynamic nature of volatility connectedness, with implications for risk management and policy formulation in Africa.. Load-shedding; Connectedness; Africa equity markets; Spillovers; Stages of load-shedding.. IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; VOLATILITY SPILLOVERS; EQUITY; CONTAGION; RETURN
THE VAR EVALUATION OF SHARIAH STOCK MARKET IN MALAYSIA DURING COVID-19 PANDEMIC BY USING CONDITIONAL EVT METHOD. In the current financial market, the Islamic stock market faced with a significant challenge to sustain and maintain its stability in intensified market volatility and unexpected extreme events. It can reduce the intensity and occurrence of financial crises by eliminating the primary vulnerabilities of the conventional system. This paper aims to identify the most effective method in risk evaluation by presenting the risk evaluation performance between conventional and Islamic stock market that focusing on extreme events in stock market returns. The data analysis is divided into two periods: normal and crisis COVID-19 periods. The empirical analysis, conducted within the sample employs the conditional extreme value theory (EVT) method that combine the filtered series of GARCH and EGARCH models. This filtered series will be used to generate the threshold by using the peak-over-threshold (POT) method. This threshold then will be used to estimate the generalized Pareto distribution (GPD) distribution to forecast the one-day ahead value-at-risk (VaR). The findings indicate that, in Shariah stock markets, the conditional EVT model demonstrates superior performance in forecasting stock market risk compared to the standard GARCH and EGARCH models.. Conditional EVT; Heavy-tailed; POT method; Value-at-risk. TIME
COVID-19 pandemic and linkage between stock markets in Middle Eastern countries. PurposeThe purpose of this study is to evaluate the linkage between stock markets in Middle Eastern countries before and during the COVID-19 pandemic by using daily and monthly data sets for the period from 2011 to 2021.Design/methodology/approachThe multivariate BEKK-GARCH model was computed to evaluate the existence of non-linear linkage among Middle Eastern stock markets. A correlation approach was used in this study to determine the type of linear connectivity between Middle Eastern stock markets. The study used monthly and daily data sets covering the years 2011 to 2021 to investigate the linkage between stock returns and the volatility spillover between the stock markets in Palestine, Jordan, Syria and Lebanon, both before and during COVID-19. To understand the types of relationships between markets before and during COVID-19, the daily data set was split into two periods.FindingsResults from the pre-COVID-19 suggest that the Syria stock market is not related to any stock market in the Middle East markets; the Palestine and Lebanon stock markets exhibit a weak relationship, but Jordan and Palestine stock markets are strongly linked. Conversely, results from COVID-19 evince a very strong bidirectional volatility spillover between Middle East stock markets. Overall, the results indicate the existence of increased linkage during the COVID-19.Research limitations/implicationsThe data collection on a daily and monthly basis, both before and during COVID-19, presents certain limitations for the paper. Another limitation is that the data cannot be generalized to all other Middle Eastern countries; rather, the conclusions drawn can only be applied to these four countries. This is especially true if the scholars collected most of the necessary data but were unable to obtain certain data for various reasons.Practical implicationsThese findings have implications for risk management, market regulation and the growth of local stock markets. Facilitating the growth of smaller, more specialized markets to improve integration with other Middle Eastern markets is one of the goals of the domestic stock market development policy. To ensure financial stability, Middle Eastern stock market linking policies should consider spillover risk and take steps to minimize it. Enhancing the range of investment opportunities accessible to shareholders and functioning as confidential risk-sharing mechanisms to facilitate improved risk management in Middle Eastern stock markets will not only significantly influence the mobilization of private capital to promote investment and local economic growth but also lay groundwork for integrated market platforms.Originality/valueThis paper adds to the body of literature by demonstrating the nature of the connections between these small markets and the larger markets in the Middle East region. Information from the smaller markets provides institutional insights that enhance the body of existing research, guide the formulation of evidence-based policies and advance financial literacy in these markets. This study contributes by comparing data from different stock markets to better understand the type and strength of the link and relationship between Middle Eastern stock markets, as well as any underlying or reinforcing factors that might have contributed to the relationship and the specific types of links that these markets shared prior and during COVID-19.. COVID-19 pandemic; Correlation; Middle East stock markets; Financial markets integration; Stock market linkage; Volatility spillover; F36; G15; G40; I18. INTEGRATION; ECONOMIES; AFRICA
When the market got the first dose: Stock volatility and vaccination campaign in COVID-19 period. During the COVID-19 pandemic, the news of clinical trials for vaccines and mass vaccinations have brought renewed optimism for stabilizing the economy and financial markets. However, the mental stress of investors or doubt about the effectiveness of government policies to cope with economic disruptions has caused stock market volatility. We investigate the significance of the vaccination rate in alleviating the global stock market volatility which is measured by the GJR-GARCH model. We discover that a higher vaccine initiation rate has a positive effect on global stock markets, especially in developed countries and areas with higher rates than their average. Our findings remain reliable even when using different projected volatility models and other estimates of the main independent variables. Mass immunization also implies that governments will not have to take extreme measures to handle the pandemic, which alleviates investor worries about compliance and the prolonged effects of COVID-19. Our research indicates that global stock markets are providing insight into the economic value of the development of COVID-19 vaccines, even before public vaccinations start.. COVID-19; Stock market volatility; Vaccine campaign; Vaccine initiation rate. SPECIFICATION; CURRENCY; TESTS
Forecasting stock market anomalies in emerging markets: An OPTUNA-optimized isolation forest and K-means approach. Forecasting financial anomalies in emerging markets is critical for informed investment and risk management. This study proposes a novel machine learning framework that integrates an OPTUNA-optimized Isolation Forest algorithm with K-Means clustering to detect and classify stock market anomalies in Iran Khodro, one of Iran's largest automotive firms. Leveraging daily stock data from 2001 to 2022, the model enhances anomaly detection accuracy by tuning hyperparameters through Bayesian optimization, significantly reducing false positives compared to standard implementations. The K-Means clustering algorithm further segments the detected anomalies into meaningful behavioral categories based on price and trading volume dynamics. Results reveal distinct periods of market disruption aligned with major political and economic events, including sanctions, currency volatility, and the COVID-19 pandemic. This hybrid approach demonstrates a robust, efficient, and interpretable method for forecasting abnormal market behavior in high-volatility, low-transparency environments. The framework holds promise for broader application in forecasting stock anomalies across other emerging financial markets.. Financial anomalies; Isolation forest; Hyperparameter optimization; Emerging markets; Stock market forecasting
Emotions, moods and hyperreality: social media and the stock market during the first phase of COVID-19 pandemic. Purpose This paper aims to expand the emerging literature on COVID-19 and the financial markets by searching for a relationship between the uncertainty of the first phase of the COVID-19 pandemic experienced through social media and the extreme volatility of the Italian stock market. Design/methodology/approach The authors analyze the relationship between social media and stock market trends during the first phase of the COVID-19 pandemic through the lens of social theory and Baudrillard's simulacra and hyperreality theory. The authors conducted the data analysis in two phases: the emotional and Granger correlation analysis by using the KPI6 software to analyze 3,275,588 tweets for the predominant emotion on each day and observe its relationship with the stock market. Findings The research results show a significant Granger causality relation between tweets on a particular day and the closing price of the FTSE MIB during the first phase of the COVID-19 epidemic. The results highlight a strong relationship between social media hyperreality and the real world. The study confirms the role of social media in predicting stock market volatility. Research limitations/implications The findings have theoretical and practical implications as they reveal the relevance of social media in our society and its relationship with businesses and economies. In an emergency, social media, as an expression of users' feelings and emotions, can generate a state of hyperreality that is strong correlated with reality. Since social media allows users to publish and share messages without any filter and mediation, the hyperreality generated is affected by highly subjective elements. Originality/value This research is different from the previous ones on the same topic because unlike previous studies, conducted under normal or simulated scenarios, this study is focused on the first phase of an unpredictable and unforeseen emergency event: the COVID-19 pandemic. This research adopts a multidisciplinary approach and integrates previous studies on the economic and financial effects generated by social media by applying well-known theories to a new and unexplored context. The study reveals the significant impact generated by social media on stock markets during a global pandemic.. Social media; Stock market; Social theory; Baudrillard; Behavioral economics. SENTIMENT; TWITTER; REPRESENTATION; IMPACT; NEWS
Combination forecast based on financial stress categories for global equity market volatility: the evidence during the COVID-19 and the global financial crisis periods. The 2008 global financial crisis and the COVID-19 pandemic both decrease economic growth and lead to high uncertainty in global stock markets, and financial stress information is closely linked to financial crises. To improve the predictability of the realized volatility of the global equity indices during crises, we examine the predictive role of the Global Financial Stress Index (GFSI) and its categories. We find that the combination predictions based on GFSI's five incorporated categories and three region-based categories outperform the predictions based on the raw GFSI for most indices. Specifically, the DMSPE combination model with a low discount factor has accurate forecasts for 5- and 22-day-ahead realized volatility, and it also performs better than the equal-weighted and the trimmed mean combination methods. In this study, we present a comprehensive analysis of the predictive role of financial stress information in stock market volatility during crises, and the empirical evidence provides a positive case against the 'forecast combination puzzle'. Our findings are very instructive for policymakers and investors to make their own short-term and long-term plans in crisis.. Financial stress; forecast combination; global stock markets; COVID-19; global financial crisis. SAMPLE; PRICE; LINK
Did the Islamic Stock Index Provide Shelter for Investors during the COVID-19 Crisis? Evidence from an Emerging Stock Market. The economic and financial chaos caused by COVID-19 has been a discussion topic since the beginning of 2020. This study intends to provide a parallel comparison of volatility change and external shock persistence of the Islamic and conventional stock indexes of the Pakistan Stock Exchange. The daily stock index was extracted from Eikon Thomson Reuters for the conventional and Islamic stock index from Jan 2018 to April 2021, which was further divided in three periods, i.e., full, pre-, and post-pandemic period. The data have been analyzed using generalized autoregressive conditional heteroscedasticity (GARCH). An optimally parameterized GARCH (1,1) model is used to measure volatility change for both the pre- to post-pandemic periods. The results suggest that the magnitude of risk in a conventional index is significantly higher than that of the Islamic stock index for the period of study. However, the level of COVID shock persistence is longer in the KSE (conventional) index compared to the KMI (Islamic) index.. emerging market; Islamic stocks; COVID-19; risk and volatility. VOLATILITY; PERCEPTION; MODELS; RISK
What influences stock market co-movements between China and its Asia-Pacific trading partners after the Global Financial Crisis?. This paper investigates the stock market co-movements between China and its 12 trading partners in the Asia-Pacific region after the Global Financial Crisis. The Dynamic Conditional Correlation (DCC) - Mixed Data Sampling (MIDAS) model is adopted to extract short and long-run correlations. The author utilizes the weekly conditional correlations to detect contagion and explores transmission mechanisms by regressing the monthly economic and financial variables on the monthly conditional correlations. The empirical results show that recent events (specifically, the Shanghai stock market crash, the US-China tariff war, and the COVID-19 pandemic) have increased the contagion incidences across the stock markets in China and its trading partners. Moreover, bilateral trade and market similarities are major drivers of stock market co-movements between China and developed partners as well as between China and emerging partners. Apart from country-pair-specific factors, common factors (such as the Chinese illiquidity pressure) also affect the co-movements between Chinese and its partners' stock markets during the whole and turmoil periods. Besides, the regression results for contagion episodes are mixed. On the one hand, stock market co-movements are irrelevant to most economic fundamentals, indicating pure contagion. On the other hand, differences in industrial production growth and market size affect stock market co-movements between China and its emerging partners.. Stock market co-movement; Contagion; Transmission mechanism; Shanghai stock market crash; US-China tariff war; COVID-19 pandemic. VOLATILITY SPILLOVERS; EQUITY MARKETS; US; CONTAGION; INTERDEPENDENCE; INTEGRATION; DETERMINANTS; RETURNS; LINKAGES; PURE
Effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on the US stock market and uncertainty: A comparative assessment between the first and second waves. This paper makes the first comparative assessment of the impacts of the first and second waves of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic for the US stock market and its uncertainty. To this end, we investigate the dynamic conditional correlation and the asymmetric impacts of shocks on the correlation between the US and Chinese stock markets before and during the COVID-19 crisis. Furthermore, we analyze and compare the relationship between the COVID-19 pandemic and US returns and uncertainty during the first and second waves of the pandemic. First, we find that the dynamic correlation approach supports the presence of volatility spillovers (contagion effects) between the two stock markets, especially during the rapid spread phase of COVID-19 in the US. Second, the analysis of news impact correlation surfaces shows that the shocks to the US and Chinese markets have asymmetric effects on the correlation between the two markets. Finally, we find a persistent link between US returns, uncertainty, and the COVID-19 pandemic during the first and second waves of the outbreak. Our results prove that the pandemic has shown harmful consequences for financial markets in general and the US economy in particular.. COVID-19 pandemic; Comparative assessment; First wave; Second wave; US stock market; Economic uncertainty
COVID-19 pandemic and stock market linkages in Southern African Customs Union: a volatility spillover analysis. Despite the numerous implications, extant literature reveals a notable absence of the nature of stock market linkages in the Southern African Customs Union (SACU). This gap provides a motivation to investigate the linkages between SACU markets. Hence, this paper evaluates the linkages between four of the five stock markets in the SACU before and during the COVID-19 pandemic: Botswana, Eswatini, Namibia, and South Africa, using the bivariate Baba-Engle-Kraft-Kroner (BEKK) GARCH model and correlation analysis. The results from the pre-COVID-19 pandemic era suggest the absence of any linkage between small SACU stock markets (Botswana and Eswatini) and the South African stock market, except for the Namibian stock market. In addition, there is a weak relationship among the small markets. Conversely, the COVID-19 era results show evidence of a strong linkage among the SACU stock markets, suggesting the existence of increased linkage during the COVID-19 pandemic era. These findings not only close an important literature gap but are also important for market risk diversification and financial market stability within the Union. They are equally useful to investors in their search to understand the dynamic linkages between stock markets in the SACU during crisis periods.. INTEGRATION
Time-varying causality impact of economic policy uncertainty on stock market returns: Global evidence from developed and emerging countries. In this study, we examine the causal relationship between economic policy uncertainty (EPU) and stock indices in the Group of Seven and Emerging Market Seven nations from 1997 to 2022, using a novel time-varying Granger causality test based on the lag-augmented vector autoregressive model. The main findings are as follows. First, the results of the linear and non-linear Granger tests for the whole sample period show that either the global or national EPU has a causal impact on the stock market in less than half of the 14 countries, while the stock market is more likely to affect EPU. Second, the time-varying Granger causality tests show that the period in which the EPU affects the stock market is often accompanied by a major international crisis or national event. Global EPU has a relatively significant impact on developed market equity markets compared to domestic EPU. Resource exporting emerging nations tend to be significantly affected by global EPU, but developing countries with complete industrial systems or unstable political situations are more likely to be affected by local EPU. Finally, multi-scale, time-varying Granger causality tests show that both global and domestic EPUs have a significant causal impact on equity markets in the long run, although the impact of global EPUs is concentrated in the short term, whereas the impact of domestic EPUs appears to be longer-term. The new coronavirus (COVID-19) has dramatically amplified the short-term impact of global EPU. Our findings support political implications for the development of government policies and investors' global asset allocation.. Economic policy uncertainty; Stock market; Linear and nonlinear Granger tests; Time-varying Granger causality test; Wavelet decomposition. POLITICAL UNCERTAINTY; GRANGER CAUSALITY; STRUCTURAL-CHANGE; US; CHINA; MONEY; RISK; INSTABILITY; VOLATILITY; DEPENDENCE
Market return spillover from the US to the Asia-Pacific Countries: The Role of Geopolitical Risk and the Information & Communication Technologies. This study examines the market return spillovers from the US market to 10 Asia-Pacific stock markets, accounting for approximately 91 per cent of the region's GDP from 1991 to 2022. Our findings indicate an increased return spillover from the US stock market to the Asia-Pacific stock market over time, particularly after major global events such as the 1997 Asian and the 2008 global financial crises, the 2015 China stock market crash, and the COVID-19 pandemic. The 2008 global financial crisis had the most substantial impact on these events. In addition, the findings also indicate that US economic policy uncertainty and US geopolitical risk significantly affect spillovers from the US to the Asia-Pacific markets. In contrast, the geopolitical risk of Asia-Pacific countries reduces these spillovers. The study also highlights the significant impact of information and communication technologies (ICT) on these spillovers. Given the increasing integration of global financial markets, the findings of this research are expected to provide valuable policy implications for investors and policymakers.. IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; FINANCIAL CRISIS; EMERGING MARKETS; STOCK MARKETS; VOLATILITY; PRICE; EXCHANGE; IMPACT; POLICY
Entropy of Volatility Changes: Novel Method for Assessment of Regularity in Volatility Time Series. The goal of this research is to introduce and thoroughly investigate a new methodology for the assessment of sequential regularity in volatility time series. Three volatility estimators based on daily range data are analyzed: (1) the Parkinson estimator, (2) the Garman-Klass estimator, and (3) the Rogers-Satchell estimator. To measure the level of complexity of time series, the modified Shannon entropy based on symbol-sequence histograms is utilized. Discretization of the time series of volatility changes into a sequence of symbols is performed using a novel encoding procedure with two thresholds. Five main stock market indexes are analyzed. The whole sample covers the period from January 2017 to December 2023 (seven years). To check the robustness of our empirical findings, two sub-samples of equal length are investigated: (1) the pre-COVID-19 period from January 2017 to February 2020 and (2) the COVID-19 pandemic period from March 2020 to April 2023. An additional formal statistical analysis of the symbol-sequence histograms is conducted. The empirical results for all volatility estimators and stock market indexes are homogeneous and confirm that the level of regularity (in terms of sequential patterns) in the time series of daily volatility changes is high, independently of the choice of sample period. These results are important for academics and practitioners since the existence of regularity in the time series of volatility changes implies the possibility of volatility prediction.. entropy; volatility; range-based daily data; symbolic time series analysis (STSA); stock market; information content; complexity; regularity. EFFICIENCY; VARIANCE; PRICES
Predictability of the Realised Volatility of International Stock Markets Amid Uncertainty Related to Infectious Diseases. In the context of the great turmoil in the financial markets caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, the predictability of daily infectious diseases-related uncertainty (EMVID) for international stock markets volatilities is examined using heterogeneous autoregressive realised variance (HAR-RV) models. A recursive estimation approach in the short-, medium- and long-run out-of-sample predictability is considered and the main findings show that the EMVID index plays a significant role in forecasting the volatility of international stock markets. Furthermore, the results suggest that the most vulnerable stock markets to EMVID are those in Singapore, Portugal and The Netherlands. The implications of these results for investors and portfolio managers amid high levels of uncertainty resulting from infectious diseases are discussed.. uncertainty; infectious diseases; COVID-19; international stock markets; realised volatility; forecasting. PRECIOUS-METAL
Time-frequency volatility spillovers between major international financial markets during the COVID-19 pandemic. We examine volatility spillovers and their time-frequency dynamics among major global financial markets from the outbreak of COVID-19 to present. Results show that total spillovers, driven by low frequency components, peaks at the end of March 2020 and then decline, which is not consistent with the upward trend of COVID-19; Stock markets of US and UK are net spillover transmitters, while other markets are net spillover receivers. The findings suggest that markets rally in the short term, but investors need to beware of bubbles and liquidity tightening expectations, and policymakers can gradually start to resume conventional monetary policy.. COVID-19; Financial markets; Volatility spillover; Time-frequency dynamics. IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; CONNECTEDNESS
Contagion Risk in Equity Markets During Financial Crises and COVID-19: A Comparison of Developed and Emerging Markets. This study compared the impact of the Global Financial Crisis (GFC) and the COVID-19 pandemic on financial market contagion between developed and emerging markets. A DCC-GARCH model was employed to test the contagion effects of developed and emerging markets using weekly returns for the S&P 500 (US), FTSE-100 (UK), ASX 200 (AUS), IBOVESPA (BRA), BSE SENSEX (IND) and BVM IPC (MEX). The results show that there was a persuasive case made for the integration of markets for efficient financial systems. A crisis occurring in one market holds significant repercussions for any of the connected markets. The findings show that the COVID-19 pandemic affected all the markets more severely than the GFC and contagion effects were more pronounced in emerging markets than in developed markets during the GFC and the pandemic. Consequently, policymakers in emerging markets should implement policies that reduce external vulnerabilities and improve their markets' stability to reduce the impact of contagion risk.. contagion; financial crisis; COVID-19; DCC-GARCH model; internationalization. DYNAMIC CONDITIONAL CORRELATION; STOCK-MARKET; VOLATILITY; DCC
Portfolio diversification during the COVID-19 pandemic: Do vaccinations matter?. The COVID-19 vaccine rollout expects to mitigate the severe negative impacts of the pandemic on global financial markets. Our study provides supporting evidence for this expectation. We find robust evidence that vaccinations significantly reduce the cross-country stock volatility connectedness among G7 nations, suggesting that the diversification benefits of an international equity portfolio may be enhanced during the pandemic when vaccinations accelerate. We present two explanations for this result. First, the vaccine deployment improves stock market return and decreases individual stock market volatility. Second, the vaccine rollout helps a country's stock market be more resilient to exogenous shocks. We further demonstrate that a global portfolio using a tactical allocation rule based on the intensity of vaccinations can outperform a buy-and-hold portfolio in terms of risk-adjusted returns.. COVID-19 vaccinations; Portfolio diversification; Volatility connectedness; Performance evaluation; Multivariate heterogeneous autoregressive model. RETURN VOLATILITY; TRADING VOLUME; REALIZED VOLATILITY; SPILLOVERS; MODEL; CONNECTEDNESS; VARIANCE; DYNAMICS; MARKETS; IMPACT
Feedback trading in global stock markets under uncertainty of COVID-19. Purpose Although some research has been carried out on feedback trading in different asset classes, there have been few empirical investigations that consider both major and emerging stock markets (Koutmos, 1997; Antoniou et al., 2005; Kim, 2009) stock index futures (Salm and Schuppli, 2010). In this study, the author examines positive/negative feedback trading in both developed-emerging-frontier-standalone (51) stock markets for 2010-2020 and sub-periods including COVID-19 period. Design/methodology/approach The hypothesis feedback trading behaviour led the price boom/bust in the stock markets during the first quarter of COVID-19 pandemic is tested by employing the Sentana and Wadhwani (1992) framework and using asymmetrical GARCH models (GJRGARCH, EGARCH) in accordance with the empirical literature. Findings The following conclusions can be drawn from the present study; (1) There is no evidence to support a significant distinction between developed, emerging, frontier or standalone markets or high/upper middle, lower middle income economies in the case of feedback trading. It is more likely to be a general phenomenon reflecting the outcomes of general human psychology (2) in the long term (2010-2020) based on the feedback trading results Asian stock markets appear to be far from efficiency. Research limitations/implications Stock markets are selected based on data availability. Practical implications Several inferences can be drawn about overall results. First, investors and portfolio managers should beware of their investment decisions during bearish market conditions where volatility is on the rise and also when there is a strong reaction to bad news/negative shocks in the market. Moreover, investing in Asia stock markets may require more attention since those markets are reputed to be more idiosyncratic, less reliant on economic and corporate fundamentals in their pricing. Moreover, the impact of foreign investors on stock market volatility and returns and weaker implementation of regulations also affect the efficiency of the markets (Lipinsky and Ong, 2014). Originality/value To the best of the author's knowledge, most studies in the field of feedback trading in stock markets have only focused on a small sample of countries and second, the effect of COVID-19 uncertainty on the stock markets have not been addressed in the literature with respect to feedback trading. This paper fills these literature gaps. This study is expected to provide useful insights for understanding the instabilities in stock markets particularly under conditions of high uncertainty and to fill the gap in the literature by comparing the results for a large sample of countries both in the long term and in the pandemic.. Feedback trading; Asymmetric GARCH models; Stock markets; COVID-19; Uncertainty; G15; G41; N20. INVESTOR SENTIMENT; PRICE; AUTOCORRELATION; VOLATILITY; RETURNS; TRADERS; OVERREACTION; HEURISTICS; STRATEGIES; FREQUENCY
Assessing systemic risk in financial markets using dynamic topic networks. Systemic risk in financial markets refers to the breakdown of a financial system due to global events, catastrophes, or extreme incidents, leading to huge financial instability and losses. This study proposes a dynamic topic network (DTN) approach that combines topic modelling and network analysis to assess systemic risk in financial markets. We make use of Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) to semantically analyse news articles, and the extracted topics then serve as input to construct topic similarity networks over time. Our results indicate how connected the topics are so that we can correlate any abnormal behaviours with volatility in the financial markets. With the 2015-2016 stock market selloff and COVID-19 as use cases, our results also suggest that the proposed DTN approach can provide an indication of (a) abnormal movement in the Dow Jones Industrial Average and (b) when the market would gradually begin to recover from such an event. From a practical risk management point of view, this analysis can be carried out on a daily basis when new data come in so that we can make use of the calculated metrics to predict real-time systemic risk in financial markets.. CONNECTEDNESS; COVID-19
The impact of covid-19 vaccination on stock markets: a comparative analysis of the USA and China. This study aimed to reveal the emergence of the vaccine against COVID-19 and its influence on the stock markets. In line with this purpose, this study seeks answers to some questions, whether vaccination supports the recovery of financial markets or not, and in which direction the effect is similar in the context of developed and developing countries, considering the United States and China samples. Fourier-based cointegration and causality tests were used to reveal the effect of COVID-19 vaccination on stock markets in the paper, which used daily data between March-2021 and September-2022. According to the results vaccination rates triggered the stock market prices in the U.S.A.. Moreover obtained findings show that the Chinese stock market and COVID-19 vaccination act together in the long term during the data range examined. Finally, it seems possible to state that it would be beneficial for investors investing in both the U.S.A. and China markets.. Covid-19 Vaccination; Stock Returns; Fourier Quantile Causality; RALS Fourier ADL Cointegration; USA; China. RETURN VOLATILITY EVIDENCE; INFORMATION ARRIVAL; COINTEGRATION; TESTS; NEWS; MODELS
COVID Asymmetric Impact on the Risk Premium of Developed and Emerging Countries' Stock Markets. We estimated the stock market risk premium during the COVID-19 pandemic with a GARCH-in-Mean (GARCH-M)(1,1) model. The analysis then explored the presence of regime changes using a two-regime Markov-Switching GARCH (MS GARCH)(1,1) model. The sample we used included the stock market indexes of nine countries from three geographical regions, including: North America (Canada, USA, and Mexico), South America (Brazil and Argentina), and Asia (Japan, South Korea, Hong Kong, and Singapore), over two periods: (a) pre-COVID (from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2019); and (b) COVID (from 1 January 2020 to 31 December 2021). Our GARCH-M(1,1) estimation results indicate that the more developed countries' stock markets experienced an important increase in their risk premium during the COVID period, likely explained by the massive government anticyclical policies. By contrast, developing countries' stock markets, particularly in Latin America, experienced a reduction, and in some cases, even a total loss of the risk premium effect. From the perspective of investors and portfolio risk managers, the identification of high and low volatility periods and their estimated probability of occurrence is useful for the characterization of stress scenarios and the design of emerging strategies. For governments and central bankers, the implementation of different policies should respond to the more likely scenarios but should also be prepared to respond to other less likely scenarios. Institutional preparedness to respond to as many different scenarios as may be identified with the use of MS GARCH models can make their interventions more successful. This work presents an objective example of how the use of MS GARCH models may be of use to practitioners in both the financial industry and government. We confirmed that the results of a two-regime MS GARCH model are superior to those obtained from a single-regime model.. MS GARCH; risk premium; Generalized Hyperbolic; conditional volatility. VALUE-AT-RISK; CONDITIONAL HETEROSKEDASTICITY; MODELING VOLATILITY; ECONOMIC-GROWTH; EQUITY MARKETS; ASSET RETURNS; GARCH MODELS; PERSISTENCE; CONTAGION; VARIANCE
An asymmetric spillover between China and Pakistan' stock markets: a comparative analysis before and during COVID-19 crisis. Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) has prominently exaggerated the stock markets of the world. It has distraught the financial and economic constancy of the globe. The study scrutinized the non-linear behavior of well-known Chinese and Pakistani stock markets, i.e. the Shanghai Composite Index (SSEC) and the Karachi Stock Exchange (KSE-100 index). The analysis utilized the VAR-DCC-MEGARCH model to determine the returns transmission and volatility spillover pattern of these markets during the standard and COVID-19 era. These results inveterate, during normal circumstances, returns generated in the financial markets of Pakistan expressively control the return movements of SSEC. However, control of Chinese stock markets on Pakistan's stock markets in terms of returns remained insignificant. The research evaluated that volatility spillover between the KSE-100 index and SSEC was insignificant during the stable periods. Nonetheless, the statistics of volatility spillovers during the pandemic era confirmed that instability in the SSEC portentously upsurges the uncertainty of the KSE-100 index. Besides, the study reported a significant leverage effect for both markets during the pandemic era. The study revealed that SSEC is the best resort for Pakistani investors to diversify financial risk.. COVID-19; financial stability; sustainable development; KSE-100 index; Shanghai Composite index; volatility spillover; VAR-DCC-MEGARCH model
Insights Into Financial Contagion: A Bibliometric Study. Research on financial contagion has witnessed an exponential growth over the last two decades due to increase of interdependence among financial markets of various countries. In the present study, bibliometric analysis has been employed to summarize the present status and to identify significant gaps in the prevalent literature on financial contagion. The Scopus database has been used to retrieve information pertaining to 456 research papers on financial contagion via keyword searching approach over the period of more than two decades ranging from 1997 to 2021. Performance analysis techniques have provided valuable insights into the most influential authors, countries, organizations and journals that play active role in enriching the literature on the selected theme. Scientific mapping technique, namely bibliographic coupling has also been used to establish the linkage among those published papers that cite the same document. As a result, a thorough examination of the financial contagion documents not only examines current research characteristics and trends but also assists the researchers in determining the best research entrance point and in conducting in-depth research.. Financial contagion; bibliometric analysis; financial crisis; financial markets; COVID-19. STOCK-MARKET CONTAGION; CRISIS; INTERDEPENDENCE; VOLATILITY; RISK; DCC; CONNECTEDNESS; SPILLOVERS; STABILITY; CHANNELS
VOLATILITY REGIMES OF SELECTED CENTRAL EUROPEAN STOCK RETURNS: A MARKOV SWITCHING GARCH APPROACH. This paper investigates the weekly stock market data of the Hungarian stock index BUX, the Czech stock index PX and the Polish stock index WIG20 spanning from January 7, 2001 to April 18, 2021. The period of more than 20 years enabled to analyse the behaviour of returns and their volatility during both the calm as well as various crises/turmoil periods. Besides the traditional GARCH-type models (GARCH and GJR-GARCH) the two-regime Markov Switching GARCHtype models (MS-GARCH and MS-GJR-GARCH) were estimated in order to examine the volatility switches of the Central European transition stock markets. The t-distribution of error terms was used to capture the dynamics of analysed returns more precisely. The results proved high volatility persistence of individual markets which substantially differed across the both regimes. Furthermore, the GJR-GARCH and MS-GJR-GARCH models clearly confirmed the presence of the leverage effect. Consideration of the MS-GARCH-type models enabled to capture various volatility switches during the analysed period attributable mainly to the global financial crisis 2008-2009, to European debt crisis in 2011 and to the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020. Interesting results were received for the Czech market with the strong leverage effect indicating completely different specification of volatility regimes by the MS-GJR-GARCH model.. stock returns; volatility; GARCH; GJR-GARCH; Markov-switching (MS); regime; MS-GARCH; MS-GJR-GARCH. CONDITIONAL HETEROSKEDASTICITY; VARIANCE; MODEL
Does uncertainty matter for US financial market volatility spillovers? Empirical evidence from a nonlinear Granger causality network. We investigate the role of uncertainty in US financial market volatility spillovers by using a directional financial network determined by the nonlinear Granger causality test. We find that uncertainty is an essential volatility transmission channel for financial market volatility spillovers. Financial uncertainty is the most central node in the financial market network. A subsample analysis, excluding the pandemic period, confirms the robustness of our results.. Uncertainty; volatility spillovers; financial market network; nonlinear Granger causality
Multifractal analysis of social media use in financial markets. We analyze the nonlinear properties of social media activity(SMA) using the multifractal detrended fluctuation analysis (MF-DFA) method. Social media data related to the stock market are gathered from social media platforms. Using data on over 2000 firms in the Korean stock market for 2018-2020, we study social media activity and its differences to evaluate associated nonlinear and statistical properties. We find that the cumulative distribution function of SMA follows a stretched exponential distribution with beta = 0.85. The Hurst exponent of SMA for three datasets (2018, 2019, 2020 year) is larger than 0.9, whereas the Hurst exponents of shuffled time series have values of approximately 0.5. In particular, we find a multifractal structure in both SMA and SMA difference results irrespective of the period and degree of multifractality defined as alpha(max )- alpha(min), which reaches a maximum value during the COVID-19 pandemic as a financial crisis.. Econophysics; Multifractal; Social media. DETRENDED FLUCTUATION ANALYSIS; INVESTOR SENTIMENT; VOLATILITY; BEHAVIOR
Rethinking financial contagion: Information transmission mechanism during the COVID-19 pandemic. Rapidly growing numbers of empirical papers assessing the financial effects of COVID-19 pandemic triggered an urgent need for a study summarising the existing knowledge of contagion phenomenon. This paper provides a review of conceptual approaches to studying financial contagion at four levels of information transmission: (i) Catalyst of contagion; (ii) Media attention; (iii) Spillover effect at financial markets; (iv) Macroeconomic fundamentals. We discuss the unique characteristics of COVID-19 crisis and demonstrate how this shock differs from previous crises and to what extent the COVID-19 pandemic can be considered a 'black swan' event. We also review the main concepts, definitions and methodologies that are frequently, but inconsistently, used in contagion literature to unveil the existing problems and ambiguities in this popular area of research. This paper will help researchers to conduct coherent and methodologically rigorous research on the impact of COVID-19 on financial markets during the pandemic and its aftermath.. Contagion; COVID-19; Return and volatility transmission; Spillovers effect; Coronavirus; Black swan. STOCK-MARKET CONTAGION; ASSET FIRE SALES; VOLATILITY SPILLOVERS; BLACK SWAN; INDEX FUTURES; INTERNATIONAL TRANSMISSION; INTRADAILY VOLATILITY; WORLD MARKET; INTEGRATION; CRISIS
NARRATIVE CYCLES: WHAT DROVE POSTWAR STOCK MARKET DYNAMIC?. Accepted Abstract. The United States is considered the world's leading center of economic power, which, in particular, is determined by the role played by the U.S. stock market in the world economy. Largely due to the capacity of this market, the U.S. dollar plays the role of the dominant world currency. The state of the U.S. financial market is important for global financial stability. This determines the importance of finding the factors that determine the dynamics of the U.S. stock market. In this article, the author offers his chronology of post-war financial cycles in the United States and analyses them in light of the changing social narratives that accompanied these cycles. Reviewing the literature on financial cyclicality and financial bubbles, the author argues that the efficient market hypothesis can be enriched by research from behavioral finance. As the author suggests, stock prices may reflect not only economic and financial information, but also a broader set of information signals. The author proposes to consider narratives as such information signals that can be used by investors in the decision-making process. In conditions of mass influx of retail investors into the market, the importance of narratives as information signals increases and their connection with market dynamics becomes even clearer. The author sets the boundaries of three long-term periods of market development (1949-1974, 1974-2003, 2003-2021) and then analyses these periods to identify distinct phases of market growth and decline. In order to identify such phases, the author uses a simple rule of decreasing minima: in the case of a general growth trend of the stock index, interrupted by its short-term falls (corrections), its minimum value after each correction is greater than the minimum value of the previous correction. The moment when the index falls below the previous minimum value can be considered as the end of the upward phase of the market. According to the chronology of financial cycles proposed by the author, in the entire post-war period there is an alternation of long-term and shortterm periods of growth of stock market quotations. By analyzing their variability, the author concludes that there are relatively stable market patterns that can be repeated in the future. At the same time, the author notes that the influence of non-economic events, in particular geopolitical conflicts and crises, sudden shocks such as a pandemic, weakens the predictive nature of historical cyclicality. In the author's opinion, under these conditions, the importance of analyzing narratives as information signals increases significantly, as they usually reflect all the key events and phenomena that attract people's attention.. financial market; financial bubble; economic cycle; narratives; investor sentiment; narrative investment; economics; financial crises; stock indices. VOLATILITY; INFLATION; RETURNS
The effect of the Covid pandemic on stock market volatility: Separating initial impact from time-to-recovery. We develop an extension to the GARCHX model- named GARCHX-NL- that captures a key stylized fact for stock market return data seen during the COVID-19 pandemic: an abrupt jump in volatility at the onset of the crisis, followed by a gradual return to its precrisis level. We apply the GARCHX-NL procedure to daily data on various major stock market indexes. The profile likelihood method is used for estimation. The model decomposes the overall impact of the crisis into two measures: the initial impact, and the half-life of the shock. We find a strong negative association between these two measures. Moreover, countries with low initial impact but a long half-life tend to be emerging markets, while those with high initial impact and short half-life tend to be developed economies with well-established stock-markets. We attribute these differences to differences in investors' sensitivity to adverse news, and to differences in the preparedness of stock markets to absorb the effects of crises such as the COVID-19 pandemic.. market volatility; COVID-19 pandemic; GARCH; GARCHX; profile likelihood
Exploring the Contagion Effect from Developed to Emerging CEE Financial Markets. The paper aims to analyze the contagion effect coming from the developed stock markets of the US and Germany to the emerging CEE stock markets of Romania, Czech Republic, Hungary, and Poland using daily data for the period April 2005-April 2021. The paper also captures the level of integration of these emerging stock markets by analyzing the volatility spillover phenomenon. The quantification of the contagion effect coming from the developed to the emerging stock markets consisted of an empirical analysis based on the DCC-GARCH (Dynamic Conditional Correlation) model. Through this multivariate model, the time-varying conditional correlations were analyzed, both in periods of normal economic development and in times of economic instability, when there was a significant increase in the correlation coefficients between developed and emerging stock market indices. Furthermore, the level of connectedness between these markets has been analyzed using the volatility spillover index developed by Diebold and Yilmaz. The empirical results surprised the high level of integration of the analyzed stock markets in Central and Eastern Europe, with the intensity of volatility transmission between these markets increasing significantly during times of crisis. All stock market indices analyzed show periods during which they transmit net volatility and periods during which they receive net volatility, indicating a bidirectional volatility spillover phenomenon. Mostly, the BET, PX, and WIG indices are net transmitters of volatilities, whereas the BUX index is net recipient, except during the COVID-19 crisis, when it transmitted net volatility to the other three indices. Finally, using a Markov switching-regime VAR approach with two regimes, we explored the contagion effect between emerging CEE and developed stock markets during the COVID-19 pandemic. The empirical results proved a shift around the outbreak of the health crisis, after which the high volatility regime dominates the CEE markets. The contagion effects from developed stock markets to emerging CEE markets significantly increased during the first stage of the health crisis.. financial contagion; dynamic conditional correlation; COVID-19 crisis; emerging European stock markets; Markov switching-regime approach. DYNAMIC CORRELATION-ANALYSIS; IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; VOLATILITY SPILLOVERS; STOCK MARKETS; CRISIS; INTERDEPENDENCE; DETERMINANTS; TRANSMISSION; COMOVEMENTS; INTEGRATION
Stock Market Interconnection and Contagion During the COVID-19 Pandemic: A Network Perspective. This paper investigates global equity market interdependence and contagion during the COVID-19 pandemic using a high-dimensional vector autoregressive (VAR) framework with LASSO regularization. We estimate dynamic structural interconnections among 19 G20 markets by applying a rolling-window sparse VAR model to equity returns purged of global factors. Connectedness is then quantified using generalized forecast error variance decomposition. To detect excess co-movement beyond structural transmission, we conduct residual-based contagion tests comparing pre- and post-pandemic dependence across multiple co-moment channels, including correlation, co-skewness, co-kurtosis, and co-volatility. The results reveal a sharp increase in market interdependence during early 2020, with advanced economies such as the US becoming key sources of return spillovers. Contagion tests uncover significant rises in higher-order dependencies - particularly in asymmetric and tail-related metrics - indicating not only a rise in the intensity of market co-movements, but also a transformation in their structure. These findings highlight the importance of disentangling structural linkages from crisis-induced contagion to better understand systemic risk in global equity markets.. contagion test; COVID-19; network interconnection; G12; G15; C51. TESTS; SELECTION
Volatility Spillover Effects in the Moroccan Interbank Sector before and during the COVID-19 Crisis. The objective of this paper is to analyze the volatility spillover effects in the Moroccan interbank sector before and during the COVID-19 pandemic crisis using the DY model. Specifically, this study assesses the impact of the recent COVID-19 outbreak on the transmission of volatility among Moroccan banks listed in the Moroccan stock market. The data sample frequency is daily and extends from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2021, excluding holidays. The empirical results indicate that the volatility spillover index increased during the pandemic crisis. We also found varying degrees of interdependence and spillover effects between the six publicly traded Moroccan banks and the Moroccan banking sector stock index before and during the COVID-19 pandemic crisis.. systemic risk; financial contagion; systemically important financial institutions; volatility; vector autoregression model; variance decomposition. CONTAGION; VARIANCE; RETURN
Enhancing stock market Forecasting: A hybrid model for accurate prediction of S&P 500 and CSI 300 future prices. This paper investigates the challenging domain of stock market prediction, a significant aspect of financial markets. It focuses on developing predictive models to forecast stock prices accurately, vital for mitigating losses and maximizing gains amidst the inherent unpredictability and volatility of the market. The study comprehensively analyzes various predictive models, including time series analysis and advanced machine learning techniques. It highlights the superiority of ensemble or hybrid models in enhancing prediction reliability. Central to this research is the development of a model incorporating detailed data collection, thorough analysis, and state-of-the-art machine learning methods, achieving notable predictive accuracy. This approach underscores the benefits of data-centric strategies in today's rapidly evolving business environment and the widespread applicability of predictive analytics. The model outperforms conventional methods by decomposing time series into simpler components and optimizing hyperparameters, thereby enhancing prediction accuracy, as demonstrated by performance testing on the S&P 500 and CSI 300 indices. The RMSE, MAE, and R-2 values of the MEME-AO-LSTM model are 27.12, 19.43, and 0.992, respectively, which serve as evidence of this. The model's generalizability and high performance are demonstrated by its efficacy in a variety of major markets, including the NASDAQ 100, Nikkei 225, FTSE, DAX, SSE, and KOSPI. Additionally, the model's adaptability under diverse market conditions is demonstrated through its evaluation of its robustness in response to significant events, such as the economic stimulus responses to the COVID-19 pandemic and the geopolitical tensions resulting from the tension and conflict between Russia and Ukraine. Consequently, the proposed methodology has the potential to help investors achieve substantial and advantageous returns.. Financial Markets; Multivariate Empirical Mode Decomposition; Aquila Optimizer; S & P 500; CSI 300; Stock price; Stock price
Cross-Market Correlations and Financial Contagion from Developed to Emerging Economies: A Case of COVID-19 Pandemic. In the event that the COVID-19 pandemic spreads across various stock markets, this study may be deemed as one of the primary studies to evaluate cross-market interactions. The study examines the spread of contagious effects originating from developed economies (the United States, the United Kingdom, and Japan) to selected emerging markets (China, India, Thailand, Taiwan, Egypt, South Africa, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates). The countries studied are classified into three regions: developed economies, Asia, and Africa and the Middle East. The crisis period is identified with the deployment of the Markov regime-switching model. The conditional correlations are compared before and after the crisis episode using the time-varying multivariate DCC-GARCH model. The findings confirm that certain emerging markets are experiencing contagion from developed markets, while others remain unaffected. Overall, investors in the two regions examined (Asia, and Africa and the Middle East) have comparable diversification options. The findings are expected to bolster policymakers and international agencies in developing post-crisis measures.. co-movement; COVID-19; DCC-GARCH; financial contagion; stock markets. GLOBAL EQUITY MARKETS; ASIAN STOCK MARKETS; CRISIS EVIDENCE; NO CONTAGION; INTERDEPENDENCE; VOLATILITY; TESTS; UK; US
Stock market co-integration and error-correction of global capital markets: a study of ADR issuing Asian countries. The study examines the significance of cross-listing assets as an opportunity to diversify portfolios for retail investors from developing nations as a result of the global financial markets' partial integration. Recently, the global stock markets experienced extreme volatility due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The importance of assessing the extent of interconnectedness across major global stock markets is emphasised by this fact. Investors are inclined to find the most exogenous stock market with the sole objective of maximising wealth through portfolio diversification. The Johansen co-integration test is being used to determine the degree of interdependence between the stock markets of selected countries. Furthermore, the VEC model is applied for examining the effect of one market on another and also shows the speed of adjustment among the stock market indices. The US market shows the better speed of adjustment and has statistical significance throughout the sample period.. Asian stock market; variance decomposition analysis; VECM; impulse response function; Johansen co-integration test. VOLATILITY; COVID-19; CRISIS
Interconnectedness and Risk Spillovers among Selected Indian Stocks During the COVID-19 Pandemic. This paper examines the connectedness and spillovers of volatilities among ten selected BSE indexes during the COVID-19 pandemic. Daily data covering the periods from January 2015 to December 2020 has been utilized. We employed the Diebold and Yilmaz procedure to investigate directional and total volatility spillovers. The results reveal a significant overall pairwise connectedness of 56.8%, indicating a high degree of inter-stock dependency. Additionally, we computed an aggregate spillover index, and its graphical representation shows a substantial upsurge beginning at the end of 2019, eventually peaking on March 12, 2020. Finally, we divided the dataset into two samples: the period before and the period during the pandemic. The results confirm that COVID-19 has triggered a significant volatility spillover within the Indian market. The policy implications of these findings are also discussed.. Stock Market Volatility; Risk's Spillover; Interconnectedness; Financial Market. IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS
The source of financial contagion and spillovers: An evaluation of the covid-19 pandemic and the global financial crisis. This study investigates the reaction of stock markets to the Covid-19 pandemic and the Global Financial Crisis of 2008 (GFC) and compares their influence in terms of risk exposures. The empirical investigation is conducted using the modified ICSS test, DCC-GARCH, and Diebold-Yilmaz connectedness analysis to examine financial contagion and volatility spillovers. To further reveal the impact of these two crises, the statistical features of tranquil and crisis periods under different time intervals are also compared. The test results show that although the outbreak's origin was in China, the US stock market is the source of financial contagion and volatility spillovers during the pandemic, just as it was during the GFC. The propagation of shocks is considerably higher between developed economies compared to emerging markets. Additionally, the results show that the COVID-19 pandemic induced a more severe contagious effect and risk transmission than the GFC. The study provides an extensive examination of the COVID-19 pandemic and the GFC in terms of financial contagion and volatility spillovers. The results suggest the presence of strong co-movements of world stock markets with the US equity market, especially in periods of financial turmoil.. IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; EMPIRICAL-EVIDENCE; STRUCTURAL-CHANGE; ECONOMIC-GROWTH; STOCK MARKETS
Stock Market Volatility Spillovers in G7 and BRIC. With the global integration development, the linkage between countries is strengthened in the dynamic spillover effects between BRIC and G7 from 2009 to 2020. We find that G7 is the exporter of risk, and BRIC is the receiver of the risk. We build the spillover model from the DAG-SVAR model. In the static spillover analysis, the net spillover of G7 is higher than that of BRIC. In the dynamic spillover analysis, the total systemic spillover is highly consistent with the world's risk events. We also consider the directional spillover between G7 and BRIC, and find the volatility spillover of G7 to other markets is higher than that of BRIC. Furthermore, we use the European Debt Crisis, the China-US Trade War, and the Covid-19 Pandemic to study the spillover network's dynamic evolution. We find that the global financial market's spillover network is enhanced, and the volatility net spillover increased rapidly after the corresponding events. Specifically, after the Wuhan lockdown, China's net spillover increased sharply to 264%, ranked first globally, and the net volatility spillover connectedness increased substantially after the Covid-19 Pandemic.. Volatility spillover; stock market; BRIC; DAG-SVAR
Asymmetric Modelling of COVID-19 related news persistence impact on Saudi Arabia stock market volatility. This paper investigates the persistence impact of the COVID-19 related news on the volatility of the Saudi Arabia stock market based on daily time series data consists of closing prices of 21 industry groups that constitute the Saudi stock market as well as the main market for the period from 4th August 2019 to 21st May 2020 by running the EGARCH model. The empirical findings showed that the Saudi Arabia market was significantly affected during the nine trading days after the first case in Saudi Arabia. Moreover, the EGARCH model estimates supported the existence of asymmetric effect on the Saudi stock market with a 25% negative ( leverage effect) and 14% positive effects. It was discovered that the Saudi stock market showed evidence of volatility persistence for the main market index and the majority of the industry groups. This paper contributes to the existing literature on the impact of COVID-19 related news on stock returns volatility. To our knowledge, similar studies are absent in the literature about Saudi Arabia. This study used the EGARCH model, which is considered the most reliable analysis technique to investigate this cloudy subject.. Unit root; Leverage effect; ARCH effect; Stock returns; EGARCH model. BEHAVIOR
Fluctuation Analysis of Volatility in South African Stock Market Indices. The COVID-19 pandemic in 2020 had a significant impact on the global economy, leading to a sharp decline in stock index values. This study examines major stock market indices listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange from 2012 to 2024, analyzing their realized volatility time series and its distinctive characteristics before, during, and after the pandemic. We apply multifractal detrended fluctuation analysis (Mf-DFA) and the microstructure noise index (MNI) approach to evaluate the multifractality of the realised volatility of these South African stock indices. Results indicate that (log) volatility is anti-persistent or rough, both before and after the pandemic, with the Hurst parameter H ranging from 0.2 to 0.3. Furthermore, we observe that volatility is multifractal, characterised by a nonconstant generalised Hurst exponent h(q). The multifractality deviation indices for both shuffled time series and Iterated Amplitude Adjusted Fourier Transform (IAAFT) surrogates range between 0.7 and 1.6, suggesting that multifractality originates largely from temporal correlations in both small and large fluctuations. In addition, the variability indices are low, around 0.01 to 0.02, indicating that multifractality is primarily due to nonlinear correlations. An exception was noted in the realised volatility of the JSE Financials and Industrials Index during the pandemic, influenced further by economic uncertainty due to geopolitical tensions.. Realised volatility; Multifractal detrended fluctuation analysis; Microstructure noise index; Generalised hurst exponent; Multifractality; Multifractality deviation index; Variability index. MULTIFRACTAL ANALYSIS; COMPONENTS
Return and volatility connectedness and net directional patterns in spillover transmissions: East and Southeast Asian equity markets. In this article, we investigate the pattern and dynamics of return and volatility connectedness across East and Southeast Asian markets (referred to as the ASEAN5 + 5 group) by utilizing forecast-error variance decompositions in a generalized VAR framework in conjunction with the Bai-Perron procedure to control for structural breaks. Our analysis of the dynamics of return spillovers in static and time-varying settings identifies that the stock markets of Singapore, Hong Kong and South Korea act as constant and largest net transmitters of shocks throughout the period from January 2003 to July 2021. The Chinese stock market is found to have the lowest return connectedness with other regional markets, which could be due to the local foreign ownership regulations. Visualization of the net pairwise return spillover network shows that Singapore is the sole net transmitter of shocks to all other markets in the ASEAN5 + 5 group, whereas, China, despite its market size is the sole net recipient. Two other markets in the regional group are identified as the net receivers, Japan and the Philippines, with the former becoming a net recipient from 2007. Our analysis of structural breaks shows that return spillovers across the markets intensify during periods of economic turmoil, financial shocks and the health crisis (COVID-19), however, return to the pre-shock levels during stable market periods. Further analysis of time-varying patterns revealed that the dynamic connectedness across the region is not symmetrical and the influence of negative returns is more pronounced. The investigation of volatility spillovers shows no substantial differences. The stock markets generally retain their roles. Importantly, the time-varying volatility connectedness exhibits similar patterns and tends to reach peak levels during turbulent episodes.. Asian markets; contagion; COVID-19; directional return spillovers; financial crisis; market integration; market linkage; return connectedness; vector autoregression. IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; STOCK MARKETS; FINANCIAL CRISIS; CHINA; RISK; US; CONTAGION
Risk aversion connectedness in developed and emerging equity markets before and after the COVID-19 pandemic. This study investigates the dynamic connectedness across the variance risk premium in international developed and emerging equity markets based on a Bayesian time-varying parameter vector autoregressive methodology. The empirical results indicate that the total spillover index is on average 65.6%, indicating a high, albeit declining, level of interconnectedness across the investor sentiment in the three markets under review until early 2020. Following the COVID-19 outbreak though, the total investors' risk aversion connectedness - as expected - strengthens, but more importantly, its dynamics alter, indicating that the risk aversion of emerging markets is an important contributor to the connectedness of international markets.. Variance risk premium; Diebold and Yilmaz; Spillovers; Emerging markets; Risk aversion; TVP-VAR; Covid; Financial crisis; Financial market; International finance; Behavioral economics; Econometrics. GLOBAL FINANCIAL CRISIS; IMPLIED VOLATILITY; INVESTOR SENTIMENT; MONETARY-POLICY; FEAR INDEX; STOCK; CONTAGION; BRICS; US; SPILLOVERS
Political uncertainty, COVID-19 pandemic and stock market volatility transmission. News about referendums and the ongoing evolution of a global contagious increase uncertainty about the development of economic fundamentals reflected by increased volatility in the financial markets. In this paper, employing volatility impulse response functions and assessing the volatility spillovers we examine intra-market volatility transmission in the Athens stock market. We employ a large sample period of daily data that spans from December 1999 to December 2020 and captures major events of the last 20 years especially related to the announcement of the two referendums during the Greek government-debt crisis in 2010 and the economic and political turmoil that increased country instability, the following years, the BREXIT referendum and the COVID-19 pandemic of 2020. Our results demonstrate that negative shocks during the announcement of the referendum produce larger impulse responses than during the announcement of the country lockdowns. Furthermore, we shed light on the existence of the dynamic relationship of volatility spillovers. Volatility spillovers peaked during the COVID-19 pandemic. Dynamic spillover plots demonstrate that during the COVID-19 pandemic, more volatility is transmitted by mid cap firms to large cap firms. Our findings have implications to market participants, policy makers and market regulators.. Asymmetric effects; Volatility spillovers; GARCH; Volatility impulse responses; Futures; VECM. INDEX FUTURES; POLICY UNCERTAINTY; IMPLIED VOLATILITY; PRICE DISCOVERY; COINTEGRATION; SPILLOVERS; EFFICIENCY; RETURNS; MODELS; IMPACT
Predicting stock market crashes on the African stock markets: evidence from log-periodic power law model. PurposeThis study aims to predict stock market crashes identified by the CMAX approach (current index level relative to historical maximum) during periods of global and local events, namely the subprime crisis of 2008, the political and social instability of 2011 and the COVID-19 pandemic.Design/methodology/approachOver the period 2004-2020, a log-periodic power law model (LPPL) has been employed which describes the price dynamics preceding the beginning dates of the crisis. In order to adjust the LPPL model, the Global Search algorithm was developed using the fmincon function.FindingsBy minimizing the sum of square errors between the observed logarithmic indices and the LPPL predicted values, the authors find that the estimated parameters satisfy all the constraints imposed in the literature. Moreover, the adjustment line of the LPPL models to the logarithms of the indices closely corresponds to the observed trend of the logarithms of the indices, which was overall bullish before the crashes. The most predicted dates correspond to the start dates of the stock market crashes identified by the CMAX approach. Therefore, the forecasted stock market crashes are the results of the bursting of speculative bubbles and, consequently, of the price deviation from their fundamental values.Practical implicationsThe adoption of the LPPL model might be very beneficial for financial market participants in reducing their financial crash risk exposure and managing their equity portfolio risk.Originality/valueThis study differs from previous research in several ways. First of all, to the best of the authors' knowledge, the authors' paper is among the first to show stock market crises detection and prediction, specifically in African countries, since they generate recessionary economic and social dynamics on a large extent and on multiple regional and global scales. Second, in this manuscript, the authors employ the LPPL model, which can expect the most probable day of the beginning of the crash by analyzing excessive stock price volatility.. Stock market crashes; CMAX; LPPL; Speculative bubbles. FINANCIAL BUBBLES; TESTS
Effects of the first wave of COVID-19 pandemic on implied stock market volatility: International evidence using a google trend measure. This paper investigates the relationship between investors' attention, as measured by Google search queries, and equity implied volatility during the COVID-19 outbreak. Recent studies show that search investors' behavior data is an extremely abundant repository of predictive data, and investor-limited attention increases when the uncertainty level is high. Our study using data from thirteen countries across the globe during the first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic (January-April 2020) examines whether the search topic and terms for the pandemic affect market participants' expectations about future realized volatility. With the panic and uncertainty about COVID-19, our empirical findings show that increased internet searches during the pandemic caused the information to flow into the financial markets at a faster rate and thus resulting in higher implied volatility directly and via the stock return-risk relation. More specifically for the latter, the leverage effect in the VIX becomes stronger as Google search queries intensify. Both the direct and indirect effects on implied volatility, highlight a risk-aversion channel that operates during the pandemic. We also find that these effects are stronger in Europe than in the rest of the world. Moreover, in a panel vector autoregression framework, we show that a positive shock on stock returns may soothe COVID-related Google searches in Europe. Our findings suggest that Google-based attention to COVID-19 leads to elevated risk aversion in stock markets.. COVID-19 pandemic; Google trends; Implied volatility; Stock returns; Panel analysis. INVESTOR ATTENTION; MONETARY-POLICY; SEARCH; RISK; SENTIMENT; RETURNS; IMPACT; MEDIA; US
Connectedness and economic policy uncertainty spillovers to the ASEAN stock markets. Uncertainty regarding Chinese and American economic policies impacts major investable asset classes in politically contestable geographic regions such as Southeast Asia. Our objective is to examine the dependence structure of Chinese and American Economic Policy Uncertainty (EPU) and returns on six Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) stock indices and to assess the impact of a significant statecraft consideration, the One Belt One Road (OBOR) Initiative, and an exogenous shock, the COVID-19 crisis, on the connectedness between EPU and ASEAN stock returns. We do so by employing novel connectedness and copula approaches. We find that American and Chinese EPU influence ASEAN equity indices differently across countries, with the connectedness of US EPU and ASEAN stock markets exceeding that of Chinese EPU post-2002. Further, we find that the introduction of the OBOR Initiative by China in 2013 coincided with a slight change in the dependence structure for several individual ASEAN stock indices, and show that the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the relationship between American and Chinese EPU and individual ASEAN stock index returns was not homogenous across countries. In doing so, we shed new light on the vulnerability of ASEAN member capital markets to statecraft considerations and exogenous shocks, as well as to economic policy decision-making in China and the United States.. Economic policy uncertainty; China; United States; ASEAN stock markets. VOLATILITY; MATTER; CHINA; RISK; INTEGRATION; RETURNS; PRICES
The Impact of COVID-19 on the Volatility of Bangladeshi Stock Market: Evidence from GJR-GARCH Model. The enormous sway of COVID-19 on the international financial market has been felt across the globe. The financial markets of Bangladesh have also been similarly affected by the global epidemic and experienced a significant increase in volatility. To scrutinise the connection between COVID-19 and the Dhaka Stock Exchange (DSE) indices' return and instability, this study uses data of the DSE from February 2014 to September 2021. A comparative examination of the return and instability of the stock indices of the DSE has also been done considering the outbreak of the current COVID-19 situation. After using the GJR-GARCH (1,1) model, this review uncovers that the outbreak of COVID-19 has a statistically positive noteworthy association with the DSE stock indices' instability, which increases the market's volatility. Traders' fear and the rising frequency of COVID-19 reported patients could cause this. Besides, according to this study, COVID-19 shows a substantial positive linkage with stock market returns that increases the market's return. An appealing valuation, lower interest rates in the banking channel, economic rebound following the closure to prevent coronavirus transmission, improved remittance inflows, and a return of export revenues could all have contributed to this outcome. In addition, the findings also reveal that all market indices are in a mean-reverting phase.. COVLD-19; Dhaka Stock Exchange (DSE); Volatility; GJR-GARCH; Bangladesh. TIME-SERIES
Constructing a positive sentiment index for COVID-19: Evidence from G20 stock markets. The present study investigates the degree of market responses through the scope of investors' sentiment during the COVID-19 pandemic across G20 markets by constructing a novel positive search volume index for COVID-19 (COVID19(+)). Our key findings, obtained using a Panel-GARCH model, indicate that an increased COVID19(+) index suggests that investors decrease their COVID-19 related crisis sentiment by escalating their Google searches for positively associated COVID-19 related keywords. Specifically, we explore the predictive power of the newly constructed index on stock returns and volatility. According to our findings, investor sentiment positively (negatively) predicts the stock return (volatility) during the COVID-19. This is the first study assessing global sentiment by proposing a novel proxy and its impacts on the G20 equity market.. COVID-19; Sentiment; G20; Stock markets; Panel-GARCH. INVESTOR SENTIMENT; PRICE DYNAMICS; POLICY UNCERTAINTY; FEAR INDEX; VOLATILITY; IMPACT; RETURNS; SEARCH; SHOCKS
Predicting stock market returns in turbulence through the adaptive neuro-fuzzy inference system. Purpose Accurate stock market forecasting impacts the decision-making of firms, investors and macroeconomic policies. This study analyzes the performance of the neuro-fuzzy technique for estimating the stock market in turbulent and normal states for firms listed on the Pakistan Stock Exchange (PSX). This study aims to evaluate the accuracy of the forecasting of neuro-fuzzy. It further considers the ex ante uncertainty and information asymmetry theories. Design/methodology/approach To determine one-day-ahead forecasting, we consider the dataset of 15 nonfinancial firms for two volatile market periods (2017 market fluctuations and COVID-19) and one stable market period (2018-2019). The methodology employs two adaptive neuro-fuzzy inference systems (ANFIS): the controller and the stock market process. Results suggest an accurate prediction of stock market trends using the proposed system in all three market periods. We evaluated the results based on hit rate percentage, root mean square error (RMSE) and graphical representation. Findings Results from the controller model were used to drive the stock market process model. In contrast, results from the process model indicate that stock market volatility, changes in stock prices and previous-day stock returns can effectively predict following-day stock returns using ANFIS. Practical implications The findings would be helpful for investors in yielding higher returns during stable and turbulent market periods. Furthermore, it would aid managers, policymakers and analysts in decision-making and target-setting. Originality/value This study uses the ANFIS to predict the stock market return in turbulent phases.. Stock market prediction; Neuro-fuzzy-based forecasting; ANFIS; Stock market crisis. INFORMATION
Volatility spillovers among MIST stock markets. This paper examines the effects of volatility spillover between MIST stock markets. We used daily data from January 3, 2012, to November 16, 2021, and the test of causality in variance, including structural breaks. First, we observed no structural break for Turkey and Indonesia, but there is a structural break in each South Korean and Mexican stock markets. A structural break is found for Mexico the day, aka El Betito was arrested. Likewise, we detected a structural break on the first day of the Covid-19 case for South Korea. We surprisingly observed that Covid-19 did not cause a structural break in these markets during the period analyzed, except in South Korea. GARCH (1,1) models, including structural breaks, show that all series are temporarily and permanently affected by their own shocks. The causality in variance test reveals that MIST countries have volatility spillover effects on each other. There is bidirectional causality in variance between all markets, except South Korea and Mexico. The Mexican stock market is a volatility transmitter for South Korea, but vice versa. The paper indicates a connection in terms of the financial markets of MIST countries, and they are affected by each other's shocks, according to the study results.. volatility; spillover; causality in variance; structural break; MIST countries. GLOBAL FINANCIAL CRISIS; CAUSALITY-IN-VARIANCE; BRICS; CHINA; US; TRANSMISSION; CONTAGION; RETURNS; PRICE
EFFECT OF HEALTH SYSTEM PERFORMANCE ON VOLATILITY DURING THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC: A NEURAL NETWORK APPROACH. The study proposes an assessment of the link between the performance of national health systems and volatility during the COVID-19 pandemic. Data from the World Health Organization was accessed regarding the Global Health Security Index of the states considered in the analysis as well as the categories based on which it is determined. To characterise volatility, a representative stock market index was considered for each of the 60 states analysed. Data processing was carried out using an artificial neural network. The main results show that: i) before the pandemic, the link between market volatility and the performance of national health systems was weak; ii) during the pandemic, the connection between the two variables is much stronger; iii) between the six categories that define the Global Health Security Index, norms, health, and prevention had the greatest influence on volatility.. volatility; neural network; Global Health Security Index; pandemic; World Health Organization. IMPACT; MODEL
The spillover effects among financial stress, investor sentiment, and GCC stock markets: evidence under the bearish and bullish market states. This study delves into an exploration of volatility spillover between financial stress, investor sentiment, and stock market index returns in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries using the DCC-GARCH, wavelet coherence, and BEKK-GARCH models. A robustness check, applying Diebold and Yilmaz's (2012, 2014) methodology, verifies network measures across markets. Significant patterns in financial stress index were observed during crises, with strong co-movement between financial stress, investor sentiment, and stock returns, especially during COVID-19 pandemic. Volatility transmission from stock returns to investor sentiment and the financial stress index was notable in some markets. Additionally, we found a significant volatility transmission from the financial stress index to market returns during periods of bearish stress in Bahrain and Kuwait and bullish stress across all countries. These findings offer insights for investors and fund managers optimizing portfolios and managing risk exposure.. Financial stress; investor sentiment; GCC market; Markov switching; BEKK-GARCH; Wavelet coherence analysis. RETURNS; INDEXES; CONNECTEDNESS
Financial contagion across G7 countries during stock market crashes. Globalisation leads to rising stock market exposure to financial contagion during economic crises. Since the importance of short-run linkages between stock markets for international portfolio diversification, this study aims to investigate the existence of financial contagion across G7 stock markets throughout the stock market crashes of 2008 and 2020 using short-run time-varying conditional correlations. To do this, first, this study estimates the DCC-MIDAS model based on the GARCH-MIDAS model to decompose the short- and long-run time-varying conditional correlations among G7 stock markets. Then, it estimates the regression model for each stock market pair to examine the existence of financial contagion across G7 stock markets during the stock market crashes. The empirical findings provide new evidence of financial contagion between developed stock markets during the global crash periods. A noteworthy finding is that the results on financial contagion are mixed and differ by region and the nature of stock market crashes.. global financial crisis; contagion; COVID-19 pandemic; stock markets; developed economies. TIME-SERIES; HETEROSKEDASTICITY; TRANSMISSION; VOLATILITY; COMOVEMENT; CRISIS; MODEL
Preventing crash in stock market: The role of economic policy uncertainty during COVID-19. This paper investigates the impact of economic policy uncertainty (EPU) on the crash risk of US stock market during the COVID-19 pandemic. To this end, we use the GARCH-S (GARCH with skewness) model to estimate daily skewness as a proxy for the stock market crash risk. The empirical results show the significantly negative correlation between EPU and stock market crash risk, indicating the aggravation of EPU increase the crash risk. Moreover, the negative correlation gets stronger after the global COVID-19 outbreak, which shows the crash risk of the US stock market will be more affected by EPU during the epidemic.. COVID-19; Economic policy uncertainty; Crash risk; Skewness. VOLATILITY
Market-wide shocks and the predictive power for the real economy in the Korean stock market. We examine the predictive power of the stock market return for real economic growth corresponding to market-wide shocks in Korea. The periods of large market-wide shocks, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, are characterized by the stock return synchronicity and volatility that can measure price informativeness. We find that the predictive power of the stock market return disappears when stock returns show high synchronicity and volatility, and the deteriorated predictive power is associated with an increase in individual investors' net buying shares. Our finding suggests that, even if the stock market shows outstanding performance following market-wide shocks, this signal should be interpreted with caution because the stock market return may become less informative about fundamentals and lose the predictive power for the real economy.. market-wide shocks; predictive power; real economy; stock market return. PRICE INFORMATIVENESS; INFLATION; RETURNS
The implications of non-synchronous trading in G-7 financial markets. We investigate the effects of non-synchronous trading on volatility spillover for the G-7 equity markets during the Eurozone sovereign debt crisis (ESDC) and the Covid-19 pandemic crisis. For data synchronisation we utilise M Alpha(1) adjusted return series to estimate the Baba-Engle-Kraft-Kroner (BEKK) and the dynamic conditional correlation (DCC) models. We also consider the use of realised kernels as explanatory variables in the variance equation. In this set up, the contagion effects during crises periods are more perceptible, as the spikes are easier to interpret. We also check the robustness of our main results by applying, wavelet coherence analysis to G-7 major equity indices with realised kernels, as well as local Gaussian correlations (LGC). Our findings suggest the empirical significance of the synchronisation effects for the US and the other G-7 equity markets. We also conclude that realised kernels is an effective tool for mitigating non-synchronous effects. These results underline the significance of quantifying the synchronisation effects in equity markets as well as international portfolio diversification strategies.. dynamic conditional correlation; local gaussian correlation; realised kernels; synchronisation effect; volatility spillover; wavelet coherence analysis. LOCAL GAUSSIAN CORRELATION; VOLATILITY; DYNAMICS; MODEL
A comprehensive investigation on the predictive power of economic policy uncertainty from non-US countries for US stock market returns. This study uses economic policy uncertainty (EPU) indices for ten developed countries, three diffusion models, and five combination methods to forecast excess returns in the U.S. stock market. It shows empirically that, over the period January 1997 to January 2022, non-U.S. EPU indices have better predictive power for U.S. equity market excess returns than the U.S. EPU index itself. This illustrates how economic information from interna-tional markets can affect the U.S. stock market. This finding challenges the extensively recognized view that the U.S. is where important market signals are initially transmitted to other markets, suggesting that this belief is incomplete. Our outcomes are robust to a battery of tests covering model selection, model specification, forecast horizons, and the pandemic period, and their economic values are assessed. The findings are essential for the financial field to confront future fierce situations and crises.. Stock return; Predictability; International EPU indices; Diffusion models. EQUITY PREMIUM; INVESTOR ATTENTION; CROSS-SECTION; RISK; PREDICTABILITY; VOLATILITY; PRICES; IMPACT; SAMPLE
Identifying extreme events in the stock market: A topological data analysis. This paper employs Topological Data Analysis (TDA) to detect extreme events (EEs) in the stock market at a continental level. Previous approaches, which analyzed stock indices separately, could not detect EEs for multiple time series in one go. TDA provides a robust framework for such analysis and identifies the EEs during the crashes for different indices. The TDA analysis shows that L-1, L-2 norms and Wasserstein distance (W-D) of the world leading indices rise abruptly during the crashes, surpassing a threshold of mu + 4 & lowast; sigma, where mu and sigma are the mean and the standard deviation of norm or W-D, respectively. Our study identified the stock index crashes of the 2008 financial crisis and the COVID-19 pandemic across continents as EEs. Given that different sectors in an index behave differently, a sector-wise analysis was conducted during the COVID-19 pandemic for the Indian stock market. The sector-wise results show that after the occurrence of EE, we have observed strong crashes surpassing mu + 2 & lowast; sigma for an extended period for the banking, automobile, IT, realty, energy, and metal sectors. While for the pharmaceutical and FMCG sectors, no significant spikes were noted. Hence, TDA also proves successful in identifying the duration of shocks after the occurrence of EEs. This also indicates that the banking sector continued to face stress and remained volatile even after the crash. This study gives us the applicability of TDA as a powerful analytical tool to study EEs in various fields.. CRASH
COVID-19, various government interventions and stock market performance. Purpose According to the Government Response tracker (oxCGRT) index, the overall government response, stringency, economic support, containment and health policies to COVID-19 from January 2020 to December 2022. The main objective of this paper is to explore how stock market performance is affected by these polices, respectively. Design/methodology/approach The authors employ EGARCH and autoregressive distributional lag (ARDL) models to test the impact of epidemic prevention policy implementation on stock market returns, volatility and liquidity and make cross-country comparisons for six important world economies. Findings Firstly, the implementation of various preventive policies hurts stock market returns and increases volatility, but there are a few indicators that have no effect or have an easing effect in some countries. Secondly, health policies exacerbate market volatility and have a stronger effect than other policy indicators. Thirdly, In China and the USA, anti-epidemic policies have been shown to worsen liquidity, while in Japan they have been shown to improve liquidity. Originality/value First, enrich the growing body of COVID-19 research by comprehensively examining whether and how government prevention policies affect stock market returns, volatility and liquidity. Second, explore the impact of different types of intervention policies on stock market performance, separately.. oxCGRT index; Stock market; Liquidity; COVID-19; Intervention policies. VOLATILITY; LIQUIDITY; GARCH
Cross-Market Risk Spillovers and Tail Dependence Between U.S. and Chinese Technology-Related Equity Markets. This study investigates risk contagion and dependence structures between U.S. and Chinese technology-related stock markets, focusing on the electronics and semiconductor sectors. We employ DCC-GARCH models to capture time-varying correlations and copula models to analyze nonlinear and tail dependencies. To highlight extreme risk dynamics, we extend the analysis to Value-at-Risk (VaR) series derived from a GARCH(1,1)-Skewed-t model. Empirical results reveal three major findings. First, volatility clustering and negative skewness are evident across markets, with extreme downside risks concentrated during the 2015 Chinese stock market crash and the 2020 COVID-19 pandemic. Second, copula results show stronger upper-tail dependence in cross-border broad markets and more symmetric dependence within domestic Chinese markets, while U.S. sectoral linkages exhibit the highest vulnerability during downturns. Third, dynamic copula analysis indicates that downside contagion is episodic and crisis-driven, whereas rebound co-movements are structurally persistent. These findings contribute to understanding systemic vulnerability in global technology markets. They provide insights for investors, regulators, and policymakers on monitoring cross-market contagion and managing systemic risk under stress scenarios.. copula models; DCC-GARCH; risk contagion; Value-at-Risk U.S.-China stock markets; electronics and technology sector
Comparing the impact of Chinese and US economic policy uncertainty on the volatility of major global stock markets. This study compares the impact of Chinese and U.S. economic policy uncertainty (EPU) (proxied by the EPU index) on the volatility of 11 major stock markets. Unlike previous research that only utilizes monthly EPU for such a comparison, this study uses both daily and monthly data to examine the impact within a month as well as over months. In order to provide a detailed analysis, EPU shocks are investigated from a two-sided viewpoint: one considering the effects of EPU indices as exogenous shocks, and the other examining the spillovers from EPU indices as endogenous variables. Meanwhile, the role of global turmoil, such as the 2007-2008 global financial crisis (GFC) and the COVID-19 pandemic, in influencing the impact of Chinese (or U.S.) EPU is highlighted. The results show that the impact of U.S. EPU is reinforced at both daily and monthly frequencies during the GFC, with a greater effect on the European stock markets. After the GFC, the rising influence of Chinese EPU is observed at a monthly frequency in several markets in Asia and elsewhere. Overall, the dynamic spillovers from the EPU indices to stock volatility suggest the dominant role of U.S. EPU in most markets at a daily frequency, while the extent of the spillovers is driven by turbulent events, including the GFC and the COVID-19 pandemic.. Economic policy uncertainty; Spillovers; Global financial crisis; Stock market volatility; COVID-19 pandemic. IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; HONG-KONG; INFORMATION-TRANSMISSION; EQUITY MARKETS; SPILLOVERS; RISK; RETURNS; DETERMINANTS; INTEGRATION; LEADERSHIP
How risk spillover network structure affects VaR: A study using complex networks and quantile regression. In early 2020, the global economy was hit by the black swan event of the COVID-19 pandemic, which triggered ups and downs in international financial markets. Volatility in financial markets is often due to price fluctuations and the fluctuations have a significant linkage effect, which makes it easy to form systemic risks. Systemic risk leads to a slight move in one part that may affect the overall situation, and the structural characteristics of the network also change with uncertainty, which has a different impact on its own risk. Mining plays a role in promoting the goal of carbon neutrality, which is likely to lead to the risk of large fluctuations in stock prices. Synthetically adopting DCC-GARCH, complex network, and quantile regression models, our research uncovers significant insights into how network structures affect Value at Risk (VaR) in this volatile market. (1) Under the influence of the COVID-19 pandemic and the US-China trade war, the network structure changes significantly, the stock price fluctuates sharply in the mining stock market, and the risk spillover probability increases. (2) The spillover range, spillover intensity, and spillover media power of stocks negatively impact VaR. They play essential roles in reducing overall risk in the network. (3) The scope and intensity of risk spillover of middle and upstream stocks are enormous, especially in some large coal and metal smelting and processing enterprises. This study provides some suggestions for market managers and policymakers on risk control.. Risk spillover; DCC-GARCH; Complex network; Quantile regression; Mining stock market
Spillovers and connectedness between Chinese and ASEAN stock markets during bearish and bullish market statuses. PurposeThis study aims to examine the tail connectedness between the Chinese and Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) stock markets. More specifically, the authors measure the return spillovers at three quantile levels: median (t = 0.5), lower extreme (t = 0.05) and upper extreme (t = 0.95). The connectedness at extreme upper and lower quantiles provides insightful information to investors regarding tail risk propagation, which ultimately suggests that investors adjust their portfolios according to the extreme bullish and bearish market conditions.Design/methodology/approachThe authors employ the quantile connectedness approach of Ando et al. (2022) to examine the quantile transmission mechanism among the ASEAN and Chinese stock markets.FindingsThe results show significant evidence of a higher level of connectedness between Chinese and ASEAN stock markets at extreme upper and lower quantiles compared to the median quantiles, which suggests the use of a quantile-based connectedness approach instead of an average-measure-based one. Furthermore, the time-varying connectedness analysis shows that the total spillovers reach the highest peaks during the global financial crisis, the Chinese stock market crash and the COVID-19 pandemic at the upper, lower and median quantiles. Finally, the static and dynamic pairwise spillovers between the Chinese and ASEAN markets vary over quantiles as well.Originality/valueThis study is the first attempt to examine quantile vector autoregression (VAR)-based return spillovers between China and ASEAN stock markets during different market statuses. Besides, the COVID-19 has intensified the uncertainty in Asian countries, mainly China and ASEAN economies.. Quantile spillovers; Tail connectedness; ASEAN stocks; Asymmetry; COVID-19 pandemic; C40; F36; G14. GLOBAL FINANCIAL CRISIS; IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; VOLATILITY SPILLOVERS; TAIL DEPENDENCE; TIME-SERIES; REGIONAL-INTEGRATION; RISK SPILLOVERS; CO-MOVEMENTS; UNIT-ROOT; US
Transfer Entropy Granger Causality between News Indices and Stock Markets in US and Latin America during the COVID-19 Pandemic. The relationship between three different groups of COVID-19 news series and stock market volatility for several Latin American countries and the U.S. are analyzed. To confirm the relationship between these series, a maximal overlap discrete wavelet transform (MODWT) was applied to determine the specific periods wherein each pair of series is significantly correlated. To determine if the news series cause Latin American stock markets' volatility, a one-sided Granger causality test based on transfer entropy (GC-TE) was applied. The results confirm that the U.S. and Latin American stock markets react differently to COVID-19 news. Some of the most statistically significant results were obtained from the reporting case index (RCI), A-COVID index, and uncertainty index, in that order, which are statistically significant for the majority of Latin American stock markets. Altogether, the results suggest these COVID-19 news indices could be used to forecast stock market volatility in the U.S. and Latin America.. MODWT; Granger causality; transfer entropy
Signal from noise: a neural network-based denoising approach for measuring global financial spillovers. Filtering signal from noise is fundamental to accurately assessing spillover effects in financial markets. This study investigates denoised return and volatility spillovers across a diversified set of markets, spanning developed and developing economies as well as key asset classes, using a neural network-based denoising architecture. By applying denoising to the covariance matrices prior to spillover estimation, we disentangle signal from noise. Our analysis covers the period from late 2014 to mid-2025 and adopts both static and time-varying frameworks. The results reveal that developed markets predominantly serve as net transmitters of volatility spillovers under normal conditions, but often transition into net receivers during episodes of systemic stress, such as the Covid-19 pandemic. In contrast, developing markets display heightened instability in their spillover roles, frequently oscillating between transmitter and receiver positions. Denoising not only clarifies the dynamic and heterogeneous nature of spillover channels, but also sharpens the alignment between observed spillover patterns and known financial events. These findings highlight the necessity of denoising in spillover analysis for effective monitoring of systemic risk and market interconnectedness.. Spillovers; Connectedness; Denoising; VAR; Volatility. VOLATILITY SPILLOVERS; STOCK MARKETS; ESTIMATOR; DYNAMICS
Contagion or interdependence? Evidence from Asian emerging stock markets in times of COVID-19 pandemic. This study examines the presence of contagion effect along with interdependency between the stock markets of Asian emerging economies like China, India, South Korea, Indonesia, Hong Kong, and Thailand that are caused due to COVID-19 pandemic. The study employs an adjusted correlation coefficient along with the DCC-MGARCH model to capture the contagion effect or interdependency between Shanghai Composite and other select stock markets. Mild enhancement of short-run volatility (DCC alpha 1) is found to be significant under the DCC framework during COVID-19 period only, although long-run volatility is insignificant in both periods. Contagion effect can be slightly traced in BSE Sensex, KOSPI, and SET 100 while market co-movement remains same for Hang Seng and JKSE Composite and thus they are interdependent with Shanghai Composite. Interestingly, adjusted correlation coefficients between Shanghai Composite and other stock markets increased substantially during COVID-19 period indicating the presence of high contagion effect amongst the markets.. COVID-19; stock markets; Asian economies; DCC-MGARCH model; contagion. FINANCIAL CRISIS; EUROZONE CRISIS; DCC; INTEGRATION
Dynamics lead-lag relationship of jumps among Chinese stock index and futures market during the Covid-19 epidemic. This paper introduces thermal optimal path method to investigate the dynamics lead-lag relationship of jumps among Chinese stock index and futures market under the background of the Covid-19 epidemic. Based on three representative stock indexes and their index futures in China, we find the lead-lag structure changes significantly before and after the outbreak of COVID-19. Before the epidemic, there is mutual effect between different markets jumps. However, CSI 300 futures and SSE 50 futures significantly lead other markets for the after-epidemic period. For the volatility forecasting based on cross-market jumps, the lagged jumps of CSI 300 and SSE 50 index futures have significantly impacts on the volatility forecast of other markets.. Jumps; Thermal optimal path; Dynamics lead-lag relationship; Covid-19 epidemic; Stock index and futures. 2 TIME-SERIES; NONPARAMETRIC DETERMINATION; VOLATILITY SPILLOVERS; PRICES; RETURN; SPOT
RETRACTED: Does stock market development and COVID-19 pandemic lead to financial crisis: the case of largest Islamic stock exchange market? (Retracted Article). This research investigates the short- and long-term effect of COVID-19 pandemic period and the largest Islamic stock market development (SMD) in term of size and market activity (turnover) on financial crises (FCs) indicator and identifies the Granger-causality relationship exist between them. We apply an autoregressive distributed lag technique analysis method in estimating short- and long-run models of this relationship, using 34 monthly observations, from 2018M1 to 2020M10 Islamic stock market of Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA). The short-term result implies that the FC indicator had significant positively affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. However, the long-run model result shows that market size indicator leads to a major FC, while market trade value indicator has negative impact on FC indicator in KSA Tadawul market. In addition, the results show that the only market capital indicator Granger-causes FCs. We concluded that the Saudi policymakers should make new regulations to avoid the negative effect of FC, in order for the growth of its stock market size and trade, for the stability of financial economic in Saudi Arabia. They should add more support to stock market trading to eliminate the potential threat of FC. We believe this is the first empirical study that investigates the short- and long-term effect of SMD, in terms of size and activity development on the FCs volatility in largest Islamic stock exchange market without ignoring the potential effect of COVID-19 pandemic. Also, this research is novel in terms of studying a market that was previously closed to outsiders and has implemented various financial sector reforms in recent years.. Financial market; crisis; trade value; market capital; ARDL; causality; COVID-19 pandemic
Market Shocks and Stock Volatility: Evidence from Emerging and Developed Markets. Market turbulences and their impact on the financial market, particularly on the stock market, is a financial topic that has received significant research attention recently. This study compared the characteristics of stock return and volatility in selected developed and emerging markets between the 2008 financial crisis and the 2019 worldwide pandemic. In this sense, we seek to answer two concerns. First, do the developed and emerging markets behave similarly during crisis periods? Second, does economic strength always shield markets from poor economic circumstances? For this purpose, the daily return data of E7 (Emerging 7) and G7 (Developed 7) countries for two sample periods-namely, the financial crisis period of 2007-2009 and the global pandemic period of 2019-2021-were chosen. By using univariate GARCH models, namely GARCH, EGARCH, and TGARCH, the study discovered that developing and developed markets reacted differently to these two financial crises. While emerging markets responded similarly to these two crises, developed economies acted differently, being more volatile and sensitive to the worldwide pandemic of 2019 than the financial crisis of 2008. Moreover, a country's economic prowess does not always shield it from economic turmoil. This study will help investors identify diversification opportunities among the developed and emerging markets during a crisis period. Additionally, this will help portfolio and fund managers understand the behaviour of stock markets during times of market crisis and thus give advice to investors.. risk-return; volatility; asymmetric volatility; financial crisis; global pandemic; emerging markets; developed markets; GARCH models. FINANCIAL CRISIS; IMPACT; MODEL; US; TRANSMISSION; SPILLOVERS; CONTAGION; PRICES; INDEX; NEWS
Analysis of the performance of predictive models during Covid-19 and the Russian-Ukrainian war. In our paper, we investigate how effectively artificial intelligence can be used to predict stock market trends in the world's leading equity markets over the period 01/01/2010 to 09/16/2022. Covid-19 and the Russian-Ukrainian war have had a strong impact on the capital markets and therefore the study was conducted in a highly volatile environment. The analysis was performed on three time intervals, using two machine learning algorithms of different complexity (decision tree, LSTM) and a parametric statistical model (linear regression). The evaluation of the results obtained was based on mean absolute percentage error (MAPE). In our study, we show that predictive models can perform better than linear regression in the period of high volatility. Another important finding is that the predictive models performed better in the post-Russian-Ukrainian war period than after the outbreak of Covid-19. Stock market price forecasting can play an important role in fundamental and technical analysis, can be incorporated into the decision criteria of algorithmic trading, or can be used on its own to automate trading.. Covid-19; Russian-Ukrainian war; stock market price forecast; cial intelligence; predictive algorithms. HYBRID MODEL; VOLATILITY; DIRECTION; NETWORKS; INDEX; LSTM
Stock Market Response to Quantitative Easing: Evidence from the Novel Rolling Windows Nonparametric Causality-in-Quantiles Approach. The US Federal Reserve has been using quantitative easing as an unconventional monetary policy tool for providing liquidity and credit-market facilities to banks, and undertaking large-scale asset purchases in periods of crisis. This study carefully examines whether the US stock market has been responsive to the use of quantitative easing over time. A major contribution of this study to the extant literature is the introduction of the novel rolling windows nonparametric causality-in-quantiles approach to studying the reaction of the stock market to quantitative easing. This approach provides a means of investigating the time-varying causality between the variables across quantiles. The standard nonparametric causality-in-quantiles test results show that stock market performance is significantly predicted by quantitative easing, except at very low and very high levels of stock returns (volatility). The rolling windows nonparametric causality-in-quantiles test results indicate that the causal effect of quantitative easing on stock market volatility and returns becomes pronounced during periods of crisis. The reactions are most significant in periods corresponding to the Asian financial crisis, the global financial crisis and the COVID-19 pandemic outbreak. Overall, the causal effect of quantitative easing on both stock market returns and volatility changes through time; the effect on stock market returns is also greater than on stock market volatility.. Quantitative easing; Stock market; Rolling windows; Nonparametric causality-in-quantiles; USA. MONETARY-POLICY; TIME-SERIES; TRANSMISSION CHANNELS; UNITED-STATES; US; BANK; UK; IMPACT; RETURNS; JAPAN
Time-frequency extreme risk spillovers between COVID-19 news-based panic sentiment and stock market volatility in the multi-layer network: Evidence from the RCEP countries. This study extends extant discussions on regional integration by exploring risk spillovers between news -based panic sentiment and stock market volatility among Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) members during the COVID-19 pandemic. We innovatively estimate quantile-based spillover indices in both time and frequency domains and construct the multi -layer network. Both static and dynamic risk spillover patterns in the RCEP panic -stock network are outlined. It is found that risk spillovers are predominantly transmitted from the panic -layer network towards the volatility -layer network. Besides, regression analyses are employed to investigate whether general features of COVID-19 media reporting affect the spillovers of panic sentiment at the country level. The results show that the magnitude of panic spillovers tend to be positively associated with overall media coverage and negatively with overall media sentiment, especially at the middle and lower quantiles.. Spillovers; Panic sentiment; RCEP; COVID-19; Multi-layer network. IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; EQUITY MARKETS; DETERMINANTS; CONNECTEDNESS; DISTRACTION; VARIANCE; TPP
Network Granger Causality Linkages in Nigeria and Developed Stock Markets: Bayesian Graphical Analysis. This study investigates the interdependent structure between Nigeria and developed stock market using directed acyclic graph with Bayesian estimation techniques for the period of March 11, 2020 to July 31, 2021. The dynamic Granger causal test of both the contemporaneous and autoregressive estimation were done using the Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) simulation method with Metropolis-Hasting (MH) sampling technique. The graphical structure of the instantaneous and autoregressive results shows returns correlation for Nigeria's stock market and both China and India's stock market while absence of return correlation are found for both US and UK stock market. The result implies that Nigeria's stock market has potential diversification benefit for the US and UK investors during pandemic crises. In addition, US stock market returns is found to depend on China stock market returns while volatility spill over runs from the US stock market to China's stock market. Last, UK stock market tends to depend on India's stock market. The implication of the study is that Nigeria's stock market is integrated with China and India's stock market while China's stock market is linked to the US stock market such that any financial shock from the lead stock markets is transmitted to the lagged stock markets.. Returns; Spillover; Bayesian graphical network; Nigeria; Developed market; COVID-19. TIME-SERIES; CONTAGION; US; VOLATILITY; SPILLOVER; MODELS; SHOCKS; INTERDEPENDENCE; CHINA; UK
COVID-19's disasters are perilous than Global Financial Crisis: A rumor or fact?. This investigation employed the Asymmetric Power GARCH model and found that COVID-19 substantially harms the US and Japan's market returns. Moreover, COVID-19 has influenced the variance of the US, Germany, and Italy's stock markets more than the Global Financial Crises (GFC). However, GFC indicated a more significant impact on the financial volatility of the Nikkei 225 index and SSEC than COVID-19. The study confirmed the leverage effect for the S&P 500, Nasdaq Composite Index, DAX 30, Nikkei 225, FTSE MIB, and SSEC. The analysis authenticated that the health crisis that befell due to COVID-19 have imperatively originated the financial crisis globally; however, the Asian markets still make available better prospects for portfolio optimization.. COVID-19; Global Financial Crises; APGARCH model; Financial markets; Leverage effect. TIME-SERIES
What impacts foreign capital flows to China?s stock markets? Evidence from financial risk spillover networks. This study investigates the spillover effects between foreign capital in China's stock market and 11 other financial assets (e.g., major stock markets, financial products, and interest rates). Employing the Diebold-Yilmaz framework (VAR- and QVAR based) and a complex network approach, we found that China's stock market foreign capital is significantly connected to in-ternational markets; the U.S., Hong Kong, and the U.K. were the top net risk transmitters. Moreover, money flows were subject to global instability and emergencies, including Brexit, the Sino-US trade war, and the COVID-19 pandemic. The operation of the Northward Fund is sometimes ahead of many developed markets, indicating that capital movement was somehow Smart Money. Our study provides a new idea for risk warning and systematic risk prevention.. Capital flow; Spillover analysis; Financial network; Tail risk. CONTAGION; VOLATILITY; SHANGHAI; LIBERALIZATION; INTEGRATION; INVESTMENT; CRISIS; CONNECTEDNESS; FUNDAMENTALS; DYNAMICS
Constructing an optimal portfolio on the bulgarian stock market using hybrid genetic algorithm for pre- and post-covid-19 periods. In the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic, global financial markets have seen growing uncertainty and volatility and as a consequence, precise prediction of stock price trend has emerged to be extremely challenging. In this background, we propose two time frameworks wherein the Hybrid genetic algorithm (RIGA) is used to set up an optimal portfolio included ten stocks traded in Bulgarian stock market during pre and post COVID-19 periods. The fitness function values of constructed HG A during pre- and post-COVID-19 periods were -7.194e(-04) and -7.014e(-04), respectively. The estimated nonzero portfolio weights during pre-COVID-19 period were ALCM (0.025), HNVK (0.253), HVAR (0.378), MSH (0.204), NEOH (0.038), and SFT (0.102) while during post-COVID-19 period were AGH (0.003), ALCM (0.015), HNVK (0.272), HVAR (0.460), MSH (0.142), NEOH (0.057), SFT (0.031), and SPH (0.021). The corresponding expected portfolio return and portfolio risk during pre-COVID-19 period were 9.825e(-03) and 7.163e(-04) while during past-COVID-19 period were 9.656e(-03) and 6.895e(-04), respectively.. hybrid genetic algorithm; portfolio optimization; stocks; COVID-19; Bulgaria
Herding behaviour and sentiment: evidence from emerging markets. PurposeBased on the theoretical framework, this paper analyzes the sentiment-herding relationship in emerging stock markets (ESMs). First, it aims to examine the effect of investor sentiment on herding. Second, it seeks the direction of causality between sentiment and herding time series.Design/methodology/approachThe present study applies the Exponential Generalized Auto_Regressive Conditional Heteroskedasticity (EGARCH) model to capture the volatility clustering of herding on the financial market and to investigate the role of the investor sentiment on herding behaviour. Then the vector autoregression (VAR) estimation uses the Granger causality test to determine the direction of causality between the investor sentiment and herding. This study uses a sample consisting of stocks listed on the Shanghai Composite index (SSE) (348 stocks), the Jakarta composite index (JKSE) (118 stocks), the Mexico IPC index (14 stocks), the Russian Trading System index (RTS) (12 stocks), the Warsaw stock exchange General index (WGI) (106 stocks) and the FTSE/JSE Africa all-share index (76 stocks). The sample includes 5,020 daily observations from February 1, 2002, to March 31, 2021.FindingsThe research findings show that the sentiment has a significant negative impact on the herding behaviour pointing out that the higher the investor sentiment, the lower the herding. However, the results of the present study indicate that a higher investor sentiment conducts a higher herding behaviour during market downturns. Then the outcomes suggest that during the crisis period, the direction is one-way, from the investor sentiment to the herding behaviour.Practical implicationsThe findings may have implications for universal policies of financial regulators in EMs. We have found evidence that the Emerging investor sentiment contributes to the investor herding behaviour. Therefore, the irrational investor herding behaviour can increase the stock market volatility, and in extreme cases, it may lead to bubbles and crashes. Market regulators could implement mechanisms that can supervise the investor sentiment and predict the investor herding behaviour, so they make policies helping stabilise stock markets.Originality/valueThe originality of this paper lies in investigate the sentiment-herding relationship during the Surprime crisis and the Covid-19 epidemic in the EMs.. Financial crisis; Investor sentiment; Herding behaviour; Covid-19 epidemic. INVESTOR SENTIMENT; STOCK-MARKET; CRISES; LIQUIDITY; INFORMATION; RETURNS; BUBBLES; MOOD
Feverish sentiment and global equity markets during the COVID-19 pandemic. This paper proposes a new approach to estimating investor sentiments and their implications for the global financial markets. Contextualising the COVID-19 pandemic, we draw on the six behavioural indicators (media coverage, fake news, panic, sentiment, media hype and infodemic) of the 17 largest economies and data from 1 st January 2020 to 3 rd February 2021. Our key findings, obtained using a time-varying parameter-vector auto-regression (TVP-VAR) model, indicate the total and net connectedness for the new index, entitled 'feverish sentiment'. This index provides us insight into economies that send or receive the sentiment shocks. The construction of the network structures indicates that the United Kingdom, China, the United States and Germany became the epicentres of the sentimental shocks that were transmitted to other economies. Furthermore, we also explore the predictive power of the newly constructed index on stock returns and volatility. It turns out that investor sentiment positively (negatively) predicts the stock volatility (return) at the onset of COVID-19. This is the first study of its kind to assess international feverish sentiments by proposing a novel approach and its impacts on the equity market. Based on empirical findings, the study also offers some policy directions to mitigate the fear and panic during the pandemic. (c) 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.. COVID-19; Investor sentiment; Feverish sentiment index; Equity indices. IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; INVESTOR SENTIMENT; MEDIA COVERAGE; CROSS-SECTION; RISK; VOLATILITY; EMOTIONS; RETURN; SEASONALITIES; ENDOGENEITY
Prediction of the Stock Prices at Uganda Securities Exchange Using the Exponential Ornstein-Uhlenbeck Model. We use the exponential Ornstein-Uhlenbeck model to predict the stock price dynamics over some finite time horizon of interest. The predictions are the key to the investors in a financial market because they provide vital reference information for decision making. We estimated all the parameters of the model (mean reversion speed, long-run mean, and the volatility) using the data from Stanbic Uganda Holdings Limited. We used the parameters to forecast the stock price and the associated mean absolute percentage error (MAPE). The predictions were compared against those by the ARMA-GARCH model. We also found the 95% prediction intervals before and during the COVID-19 pandemic. Results indicate that the exponential Ornstein-Uhlenbeck stochastic model gives very accurate and reliable predictions with a MAPE of 0.4941%. All the forecasted stock prices were within the prediction region established. This was not the case during the COVID-19 pandemic; the predicted stock prices are higher than the actual prices, indicating the severe impact COVID-19 inflicted on the stock market.
Volatility Spillovers Among the Three Places Across the Taiwan Strait: Evidence from a BEKK-CARR Approach. This study introduces a new BEKK-CARR model to explore the volatility spillover effects among mainland China, Hong Kong, and Taiwan stock markets during the COVID-19 pandemic. We also extend the approach of Diebold and Yilmaz (2009, 2012) to infer a brand-new volatility spillover index to discuss the bi-directional volatility transmission. Our results show that the trading information flow among these three markets has changed significantly as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The strength of volatility spillover is increasing during this momentous period. The Hong Kong stock market plays a pivotal role in volatility transmission. The values for half-lives by exogenous shocks keep relatively low during the pandemic period. A reasonable explanation is that the trading information transmissions among stock markets are quicker than in the non-pandemic period.. BEKK-CARR model; Volatility spillover index; Impulse response; COVID-19; Greater China area; G10; G11; G15. STOCK MARKETS; COVID-19
Multifractal analysis of Fintech market. In this paper, we delve into the intricate nonlinear dynamics of the FinTech market by clearly quantifying its multifractal characteristics, with a particular emphasis on the disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. We examined the return time series data of four pivotal FinTech indices: the Alternative Finance Index, the Democratized Banking Index, the Distributed Ledger Index, and the Future Payments Index, each representing a fundamental aspect of the FinTech ecosystem. Our analysis uncovers pronounced multifractal spectrum features within these indices, indicating a complex interplay of factors influencing their market behaviors. To assess the impact of the COVID-19 crisis, we conducted a comparative analysis of the multifractality in these time series before and after the onset of the pandemic. This methodical comparison reveals a significant intensification of multifractal behaviors across all FinTech indices under study during the period influenced by COVID-19. Our findings underscore the significant impact of the COVID-19 crisis on the complex nonlinear characteristics of financial markets, particularly highlighting its pronounced effects on the rapidly evolving FinTech sector.. Econophysics; Multifractal; Fintech market. DETRENDED FLUCTUATION ANALYSIS; STATISTICAL PROPERTIES; STOCK MARKETS; VOLATILITY; BEHAVIOR; EFFICIENCY
Investor attention fluctuation and stock market volatility: Evidence from China. This paper examines the linkage between Chinese stock market volatility and investor attention fluctuation. In Heterogeneous autoregressive (HAR) model, first, we analyzed the linkage between both decomposed and undecomposed stock market realized volatility and investor attention fluctuations across full-sample and two-year moving window sub-samples. Second, we compare the predictive power of four models in short-, medium-, and long-term volatility forecasting. Empirical results show large positive attention fluctuation amplified Chinese stock market volatility after the outbreak of COVID-19, and negative small attention fluctuation significantly stabilized stock market volatility before COVID-19, and the impact dwindled in after COVID-19. The model incorporating decomposed realized volatility and decomposed attention fluctuation performs better in volatility Forecasting. This research underscores a shift in the dynamics between stock market volatility and investor attention fluctuations, and investor attention fluctuation improves the volatility forecasting accuracy of the Chinese stock market.. MODEL; TALK
Category-specific EPU indices, macroeconomic variables and stock market return predictability. This paper mainly investigates whether the category-specific EPU indices have predictability for stock market returns. Empirical results show that the content of category-specific EPU can significantly predict the stock market return, no matter the individual category-specific EPU index or the principal component of category -specific EPU indices. In addition, the information of category-specific EPU indices can also have higher eco-nomic gains than traditional macroeconomic variables, even considering the trading cost and different investor risk aversion coefficients. During different forecasting windows, multi-period forecast horizons and the COVID-19 pandemic, we find the information contained in category-specific EPU indices can have better performances than that of the macroeconomic variables. Our paper tries to provide new evidence for stock market returns based on category-specific EPU indices.. Category -specific EPU indices; Macroeconomic variables; Stock market return predictability; Principal component method; COVID-19 pandemic. ECONOMIC-POLICY UNCERTAINTY; PREMIUM; RISK; G7; VOLATILITY; INFLATION; PRICES; OUTPUT; SAMPLE
An interpretable system for predicting the impact of COVID-19 government interventions on stock market sectors. Evaluating and understanding the financial impacts of COVID-19 has emerged as an urgent research agenda. Nevertheless, the impacts of government interventions on stock markets remain poorly understood. This study explores, for the first time, the impact of COVID-19 related government intervention policies on different stock market sectors using explainable machine learning-based prediction models. The empirical findings suggest that the LightGBM model provides excellent prediction accuracy while preserving computationally efficient and easy explainability of the model. We also find that COVID-19 government interventions are better predictors of stock market volatility than stock market returns. We further show that the observed effects of government intervention on the volatility and returns of ten stock market sectors are heterogeneous and asymmetrical. Our findings have important implications for policymakers and investors in terms of promoting balance and sustaining prosperity across industry sectors through government interventions.. COVID-19; Government interventions; Stock market; SHapley Additive exPlanations. PRICES
Market responses to geopolitical risk and economic policy uncertainty: Evidence from Vietnam. The Vietnamese stock market has traditionally been affected by local factors. However, little attention has been given to the role of external shocks, such as the geopolitical risk (GPR) and economic policy uncertainty (EPU), from Vietnam's major trade partners. Existing literature suggests that while local factors are well understood, the impact of external shocks on emerging markets such as Vietnam remains underexplored. This study investigates the effects of GPR and EPU from Vietnam's key trade partners on its stock market returns and volatility from 2000 to 2023, using the novel time-varying parameter vector autoregressive (TVP-VAR) frequency connectedness approach. Our findings reveal that EPU has a more significant effect on market volatility than GPR (42.45 per cent versus 18.80 per cent), with a long-term transmission effect for both EPU and GPR on stock returns. However, stock volatility is mainly driven by short-term transmissions. Notably, foreign EPU had a profound impact on Vietnam's stock market during the COVID-19 pandemic, whereas foreign GPR was more influential during the Russo-Ukrainian conflict. These results underscore the importance of considering external shocks when assessing stock market dynamics in Vietnam, offering valuable insights for policymakers and investors on managing risks associated with global uncertainty.. Stock return and volatility; Geopolitical risk; Economic policy uncertainty; Trade partners; TVP-VAR frequency approach; Vietnam. STOCK RETURNS; IMPACT; VOLATILITY
COVID-19 crisis and risk spillovers to developing economies: Evidence from Africa. This study provides new evidence on how risk spillovers occur from the United States to developing economies in Africa during the COVID-19 pandemic. The results show that downside risk exposures of African markets, financial firms and banks particularly increased during Phase I (30 January to 30 April 2020). The nature and magnitude of downside risk exposures of African financial markets were similar to those of the United States. Our results also reveal that the United States is a net transmitter of risk spillovers while Nigeria, South Africa, Egypt and Morocco are net recipients. Our conclusions offer guidance to risk managers, policymakers and investors.. Africa; COVID-19; developing economies; risk spillovers; spectral risk measure; value at risk. STOCK-MARKET CONTAGION; VALUE-AT-RISK; FINANCIAL CONTAGION; VOLATILITY SPILLOVERS; EXPECTED SHORTFALL; US; CURRENCY; TRANSMISSION; RETURN; EXPECTATIONS
A Hybrid Particle Swarm Optimization to Forecast Implied Volatility Risk. The application of optimization methods to prediction issues is a continually exploring field. In line with this, this paper investigates the connectedness between the infected cases of COVID-19 and US fear index from a forecasting perspective. The complex characteristics of implied volatility risk index such as non-linearity structure, time-varying and nonstationarity motivate us to apply a nonlinear polynomial Hammerstein model with known structure and unknown parameters. We use the Hybrid Particle Swarm Optimization (HPSO) tool to identify the model parameters of nonlinear polynomial Hammerstein model. Findings indicate that, following a nonlinear polynomial behaviour cascaded to an autoregressive with exogenous input (ARX) behaviour, the fear index in US financial market is significantly affected by COVID-19-infected cases in the US, COVID-19-infected cases in the world and COVID-19-infected cases in China, respectively. Statistical performance indicators provided by the developed models show that COVID19-infected cases in the US are particularly powerful in predicting the Cboe volatility index compared to COVID-19-infected cases in the world and China (MAPE (2.1013%); R2 (91.78%) and RMSE (0.6363 percentage points)). The proposed approaches have also shown good convergence characteristics and accurate fits of the data.. Forecasting; Cboe?s volatility index; COVID-19 pandemic; nonlinear polynomial hammerstein model; hybrid particle swarm optimization. STOCK-MARKET CONTAGION; FINANCIAL CRISIS; IDENTIFICATION; MODELS; IMPACT
COVID-19 impact on stock market: Evidence from the Indian stock market. This paper has been empirically investigated the existence of the day-of-the-week effect by using closing daily data for Nifty 50, Nifty 50 Midcap, Nifty 100, Nifty 100 Midcap, Nifty 100 Smallcap, and Nifty 200 for before and during the COVID-19 health crisis. This study used secondary data for all indices over the period 1 April 2005-14 May 2020. The present study used both dummy variable regression and the Generalized Autoregressive Conditional Heteroscedasticity (GARCH) model. The total study period is divided into two sub-periods, that is, during and before the COVID-19 health crisis. A negative return is found for Mondays when the during-COVID-19 health crisis period is examined; in contrast, it was positive for the before COVID-19 period. Tuesday's effect on index return is found statistically significant and positive for all indices during the COVID-19 crisis.. day-of-the-week effect; dummy variable; GARCH; stock market; volatility. REAL ACTIVITY; RETURNS; UNCERTAINTY; PREDICTS; RISK
The impact of COVID-19 shocks on the volatility of stock markets in technologically advanced countries. This study examines the volatility of China and the most advanced countries of the world stock markets due to the pandemic of COVID-19 using the TGARCH model. This research study presents empirical support for the TGARCH specification for explaining the daily time dependence in the rate of information arrival to the market for stocks traded on China stock market. Using the sample containing closing stock market returns from 05 January 2015 to 04 April 2020 of sample countries, we found that through the COVID-19, there is no significant impact of returns volatility coming from advanced countries towards the China stock market. Further, results state that China has a significant impact on explaining the volatility of the most advanced countries of the world (Switzerland, Sweden, Netherlands, and the UK) except the U.S.A. during COVID-19. We found no significant impact of China stock market returns on the U.S.A.'s volatility, but there is a presence of leverage effect during COVID -19.. Covid-19; stock market volatility; China; most advanced countries; TGARCH. FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENT; INFORMATION CRITERIA; PROSPECT-THEORY; EBOLA OUTBREAK; RETURNS
The contagion of fake news concern and extreme stock market risks during the COVID-19 period. We investigate the spillover between fake news concern and extreme stock market risks during the COVID-19 period in six hard-hit developed and developing countries. Our results of employing the TVP-VAR connectedness approach suggest that total connectedness surged and peaked during the more uncertain period; fake news concern impacted the extreme stock market risk both domestically and abroad. Additionally, fake news concern in developed countries, especially the US, is more influential than that in developing countries. We also find that the impact of fake news concern on stock market extreme volatility decreases after the inclusion of legitimate news, and local fake news concern appears to have a greater impact than legitimate news concern in developing countries. Our research shows the importance of verifying the authenticity of information during a crisis.. Fake news concern; Extreme stock market risk; Contagion; TVP-VAR model. UNCERTAINTY
Complex-Systems Analysis of the CSI 300 Index: Evolution, Resilience, and Prediction in Stock Correlation Network. With the outbreak and evolution of the pandemic worldwide, the financial market has experienced unprecedented shocks and adjustments, and the volatility and correlation of the stock market, as an important indicator of economic activities, have shown new features and trends during the pandemic. Based on the CSI 300 Index, we construct a three-stage sequential network representing the pre-pandemic, pandemic, and post-relaxation phases. We investigate the evolving dynamics and resilience of the network, forecasting potential future connections, thus offering fresh insights into comprehending market recovery. Our findings unveil that the market adapts dynamically to the pandemic's progression, witnessing an overall augmentation in network interconnectedness. While the financial sector maintains its pivotal role, the influence of non-financial sectors experiences an upsurge. Despite the network demonstrating poor stability and heavy reliance on key nodes, there exists a positive recovery trajectory. Non-financial sectors such as energy and transportation emerge as pivotal catalysts for market rejuvenation. We provide suggestions for government regulators and investors, providing strong support for optimizing the market structure and promoting the long-term healthy development of the market.. stock market; complex network; resilience; link prediction. COVID-19 OUTBREAK; MARKETS; IMPACT; RISK
Evidence of Economic Policy Uncertainty and COVID-19 Pandemic on Global Stock Returns. This paper examines the impact of changes in economic policy uncertainty (EPU) and COVID-19 shock on stock returns. Tests of 16 global stock market indices, using monthly data from January 1990 to August 2021, suggest a negative relation between the stock return and a country's EPU. Evidence suggests that a rise in the U.S. EPU causes not only a decline in a country's stock return, but also a negative spillover effect on the global market; however, we cannot find a comparable negative effect from global EPU to U.S. stocks. Evidence suggests that the COVID-19 pandemic has a negative impact that significantly affects stock return worldwide. This study also finds an indirect COVID-19 impact that runs through a change in domestic EPU and, in turn, affects stock return. Evidence shows significant COVID-19 effects that change relative stock returns between the U.S. and global markets, creating a decoupling phenomenon.. economic policy uncertainty; COVID-19; equity market volatility; GARCH model; global market; uncertainty premium. MARKET RETURNS; CONDITIONAL HETEROSKEDASTICITY; EMPIRICAL-ANALYSIS; DOWNSIDE RISK; LONG-RUN; IMPACT; CONTAGION; US; COUNTRIES; DYNAMICS
Spillover of fear among the US and BRICS equity markets during the COVID-19 crisis and the Russo-Ukrainian conflict. This study examines volatility contagion between the US and five BRICS stock markets during the COVID-19 pandemic and the Russo-Ukrainian crisis. We first use the Markov-switching dynamic regression method to endogenously identify various phases of market evolution. Then, we employ a dynamic conditional correlation process to uncover time-varying volatility spillovers relying on the implied volatility induced by daily changes in the investigated markets. Empirical results indicate that market spillover during the two crises presents quite different scenarios. The US has a more significant and persistent contagion effect on the BRICS markets during COVID-19. However, only a short-lived and pulse-like market response is detected in the initial stage of the Russo-Ukrainian crisis, and the volatility interdependency structures do not follow a specific pattern across all implied volatility pairs.. Market spillovers; Implied volatility index; BRICS; COVID-19 crisis; Russo-Ukrainian crisis. GLOBAL FINANCIAL CRISIS; VOLATILITY; CONTAGION; UNCERTAINTY; MOVEMENTS; STRESS; INDEX
COVID-19 Impact on Stock Markets: A Multiscale Event Analysis Perspective. The existing literature primarily examined the impact of unexpected events on the stock market at a single scale, posing the challenge of a lack of multiscale analysis. This paper investigates the impact of COVID-19 on stock markets (China, the U.S., and Hong Kong) from a multiscale perspective using an improved ensemble empirical mode decomposition (EEMD)-based event analysis method. First, the stock price series is decomposed into several independent intrinsic mode functions (IMFs) and a residue. Second, a novel composition method is proposed to reconstruct the IMFs into three components: high-frequency, low-frequency, and long-term trend. We find that the composition of low-frequency and long-term trend components is dominant, which is used to estimate the strength of COVID-19 impact on the stock markets. In addition, the outbreak of COVID-19 significantly increased the intensity of short-term fluctuations in stock prices. Finally, the high-frequency component is analyzed to capture the volatility spillover effects among the three stock markets by the BEKK(Baba-Engle-Kraft-Kroner)-GARCH model. The results show that before the outbreak, there are two-way volatility spillovers between any two of the three markets. After the outbreak, there is no spillover effect between China and Hong Kong, and Hong Kong has no spillover effect on the U.S. However, volatility in the U.S. market still has a significant spillover effect on the other two markets, implying that a mature market can absorb new information more quickly.. Stock markets; EEMD; Multiscale event analysis; BEKK-GARCH; C53; C6; C8. EMPIRICAL MODE DECOMPOSITION; INTERVENTION ANALYSIS
COVID-19 Pandemic and Financial Contagion. The original contribution of this paper is to empirically document the contagion of the Covid-19 on financial markets. We merge databases from Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Center, Oxford-Man Institute Realized Library, NYU Volatility Lab, and St-Louis Federal Reserve Board. We deploy three types of models throughout our experiments: (i) the Susceptible-Infective-Removed (SIR) that predicts the infections' peak on 2020-03-27; (ii) volatility (GARCH), correlation (DCC), and risk-management (Value-at-Risk (VaR)) models that relate how bears painted Wall Street red; and, (iii) data-science trees algorithms with forward prunning, mosaic plots, and Pythagorean forests that crunch the data on confirmed, deaths, and recovered Covid-19 cases and then tie them to high-frequency data for 31 stock markets.. Covid-19; financial contagion; Johns Hopkins repository; Susceptible-Infective-Removed model; tree algorithm; data science
Revisiting overconfidence in investment decision-making: Further evidence from the U.S. market. Investor overconfidence leads to excessive trading due to positive returns, causing inefficiencies in stock markets. Using a novel methodology, we build on the previous literature by investigating the existence of overconfidence by studying the causal relationship between return and trading volume covering the COVID-19 period. We implement a nonlinear approach to Granger causality based on multilayer feedforward neural networks on daily returns and trading volumes from 2016 to 2021, covering 1424 daily observations of the S & P 500 index. The results provide evidence of overconfidence among investors. Such behavior may be linked to the increase in the number of investors. However, there is a decline in the rate of returns during the study period, implying uncertainty caused by the COVID-19 pandemic.. Finance; Overconfidence; Granger causality; Artificial neural networks; U; S; stock market. STOCK-MARKET; CEO OVERCONFIDENCE; TIME-SERIES; BIAS; PERFORMANCE; VOLATILITY; ESTIMATORS; HYPOTHESIS; VOLUME; PRICE
The impact of COVID-19 pandemic news on stock market volatility: International evidence. Non-fundamental information, such as pandemic level indicators, might be perceived by investors as signals concerning lockdown extension or draw-out, which might drive investors' expectations and stock market dynamics. Since investors' beliefs may be susceptible to pandemic news, it may influence them to adjust their portfolios. literature on stock market reaction to news. This study complete the hurried literature on stock market reaction to news. Specifically, this study investigates the relationship between news concerning the pandemic level of COVID-19 and stock price volatility for seven countries where the largest clusters have occurred. We use increase rates of the number of new patients and deaths as pandemic level measures. We decompose the realized volatility into its continuous and jump components and control for asymmetric market reaction. More specifically, we distinguish between intraday good and bad volatilities. Our analysis reveals four main findings. First, we show a positive relationship between the pandemic level and realized volatility. Second, we find that pandemic news impacts the jump component significantly and the continuous component moderately. Third, we show that an increased pandemic level generates negative jumps, leading to an increase in bad volatility; however, decreased pandemic levels do not impact the positive semi-variance and positive jumps. Fourth, we highlight that the health news related to COVID-19 improves the predictive power of volatility forecasting.. COVID-19; Pandemic level news; Realized volatility; Good volatility; Bad volatility; Signed jump; Volatility forecasting; Intraday data; G14; G15; G17. TIME PRICE DISCOVERY; MACROECONOMIC NEWS; ECONOMIC-NEWS; GLOBAL STOCK; JUMPS; MODEL; RISK; RETURN; LIQUIDITY; FORECASTS
MARKET RISK DATA ANALYTICS FOR SELECTED ASIAN STOCK MARKETS DURING THE PANDEMIC COVID-19. This study investigates various conditional mean and variance models to account for the impact of COVID-19 on the selected Asian markets, specifically the Japanese and Singaporean stock markets. The research period (24 August 2012 to 24 August 2022) is split into two periods, from 24 August 2012 to 31 March 2020 and from 24 August 2012 to 24 August 2022, to analyse the effect of COVID-19 on both stock returns. We found that both returns exhibit non -normality. The best -fitted models for the Japanese and Singaporean stock markets are Student -t ARMA(1,1)-EGARCH(1,1) and ARMA(2,1)-GJR(1,1), respectively. The presence of the pandemic period indicates positive shifts in volatility intensity in both the Japanese and Singaporean stock markets. The 5% Value -at -Risk under the GARCH estimations is $3568.20 for Japan and $2050.40 for Singapore. Meanwhile, the 5% expected shortfall based on historical simulation for both countries is $3214.00 for Japan and $2196.26 for Singapore. From the results of Value -at -Risk and expected shortfall, the Japanese stock returns showed more significant maximum losses than Singaporean stock returns, which further indicates that the Japanese stock market was more volatile than the Singaporean stock market before and during the pandemic period.. conditional variance; volatility analysis; COVID-19. VOLATILITY
Retrospective on the importance of sustainability in investor thinking before and after the COVID-19 syndemic. Non-Technical Summary The COVID-19 syndemic had a strong impact on financial market volatility. This study compares traditional indices, such as the Standard & Poor's (S&P) 500 and the Euro Stoxx 50, with their sustainable counterparts; the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index (DJSWI); and the EURO STOXX Sustainability Index. The results show that the sustainable indices were more stable and less volatile before and after the crisis, suggesting that investors perceive less risk in sustainable companies. These findings reinforce the importance of considering sustainability in investment decisions, especially in times of uncertainty.Technical Summary With the ever-increasing importance of sustainability, it is a good time for a retrospective on the impact of the COVID-19 polycrisis on stock market volatility through a comparison of traditional indices such as the S&P 500 and the Euro Stoxx 50, with their sustainability counterparts; the DJSWI; and the EURO STOXX Sustainability Index. Using GJR-GARCH and E-GARCH models, the study reveals that sustainability indices exhibited greater stability and lower volatility before and after the syndemic, suggesting a lower risk perception by investors in sustainable companies. The implied volatility analysis confirms this stability, showing a more significant impact on traditional indices. Although all indices experienced greater sensitivity to negative shocks, sustainable indices showed a faster and more consistent recovery. These findings highlight the importance of considering sustainability factors in risk assessment and investment decision-making, especially in times of crisis.Social Media Summary Sustainable indices in Europe and the USA showed lower volatility and faster recovery after COVID-19 polycrisis.. COVID-19; GARCH; stock markets; sustainability; volatility. MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS; VOLATILITY; RETURNS
Return and volatility connectedness across stock markets: A global perspective. The connectedness of stock markets is inevitable because of the rapid increases in global financialisation, financial liberalisation, and integration of national economies. This study therefore increases the number of stock markets included in the LASSO-VAR model to separately estimate the connectedness of the daily-frequency market returns and volatility of a sample comprising 50 selected stock markets between 2011 and 2021. We observe that the total connectedness index changes substantially over time, exhibiting the highest change during market turbulences, i.e., the beginning of COVID-19. We also show that the transmission of shocks originates from most European markets and then impacting Asian-Pacific markets, although their intensities exhibit significant time variations. Finally, we find that macroeconomic news and uncertainties are drivers of total connectedness, while directional total connectedness is mainly driven by global rather than domestic factors.. stock market linkages; volatility connectedness; return spillover; COVID-19 pandemic; LASSO-VAR model; G15; G32; C53; F65. IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; SPILLOVERS; NETWORK; FINANCE; RISK
Dynamic Connectedness among Vaccine Companies' Stock Prices: Before and after Vaccines Released. This study investigates the interconnectedness among the stocks of the publicly listed vaccine-producing companies before and after vaccine releases in 2020/21. In doing so, the study utilizes the daily frequency equity returns of the major vaccine producers, including Moderna, Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, Sinopharm and AstraZeneca. First, the investigation applies the TVP-VAR Dynamic Connectedness approach to explore the time-frequency connectedness between the stocks of those vaccine producers. The empirical findings demonstrate that Moderna performs as the most prominent net volatility contributor, whereas Sinopharm is the highest net volatility receiver. Interestingly, the vaccine release significantly increases the stock market connectedness among our sampled vaccine companies. Second, the cross-quantile dependency framework allows for the observation of the interconnectedness under the bearish and bullish stock market conditions by splitting any paired variables into 19 quantiles when considering short-, medium- and long-memories. The results also show that a high level of connectivity among the vaccine producers exists under bullish stock market conditions. Notably, Moderna transmits significant volatility spillovers to Sinopharm, Johnson & Johnson and AstraZeneca under both the bearish and bullish conditions, though the volatility transmission from Moderna to Pfizer is less pronounced. The policy implication proposes that the vaccine release allows companies to increase their stock returns and induce substantial volatility spillovers from company to company.. vaccine release; vaccine producer; stock market; connectedness; cross-quantilogram; TVP-VAR. IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; TIME-VARYING COMOVEMENT; FINANCIAL CRISIS; MARKET COMOVEMENTS; DETERMINANTS; CONTAGION; MODEL; US; CHANNELS; COVID-19
Evaluation of Stock Closing Prices using Transformer Learning. Predicting stock markets remains a critical and challenging task due to many factors, such as the enormous volume of generated price data, instant price data changes, and sensitivity to human sentiments, wars, and natural disasters. Since the previous three years of the COVID-19 pandemic, forecasting stock markets is more difficult, complex, and problematic for stock market analysts. However, technical analysts of the stock market and academic researchers are continuously trying to develop innovative and modern methods for forecasting stock market prices, using statistical techniques, machine learning, and deep learning-based algorithms. This study investigated a Transformer sequential-based approach to forecast the closing price for the next day. Ten sliding window timesteps were used to forecast next-day stock closing prices. This study aimed to investigate reliable techniques based on stock input features. The proposed Transformer-based method was compared with ARIMA, Long-Short Term Memory (LSTM), and Random Forest (RF) algorithms, showing its outstanding results on Yahoo Finance data, Facebook Intra data, and JPMorgan's Intra data. Each model was evaluated using Mean Absolute Error (MSE), Root Mean Square Error (RMSE), and Mean Absolute Percentage Error (MAPE).. -stock prediction; ARIMA; SARIMA; LSTM; transformer; stock volatility; stock market; stock market prediction; machine learning; deep learning. PREDICTION
Portfolio management for insurers and pension funds and COVID-19: targeting volatility for equity, balanced, and target-date funds with leverage constraints. Insurers and pension funds face the challenges of historically low-interest rates and high volatility in equity markets, that have been accentuated due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Recent advances in equity portfolio management with a target volatility have been shown to deliver improved on average risk-adjusted return, after transaction costs. This paper studies these targeted volatility portfolios in applications to equity, balanced, and target-date funds with varying constraints on leverage. Conservative leverage constraints are particularly relevant to pension funds and insurance companies, with more aggressive leverage levels appropriate for alternative investments. We show substantial improvements in fund performance for differing leverage levels, and of most interest to insurers and pension funds, we show that the highest Sharpe ratios and smallest drawdowns are in targeted volatility-balanced portfolios with equity and bond allocations. Furthermore, we demonstrate the outperformance of targeted volatility portfolios during major stock market crashes, including the crash from the COVID-19 pandemic.. COVID-19 pandemic; equity investment; portfolio management; target-date funds; volatility forecasting. ECONOMIC VALUE
Covid-19 and stock market liquidity: international evidence. This study analyzes the impact of Covid-19 on stock market liquidity of China and four worst hit countries by the pandemic. Using daily data for the stock market illiquidity spanning over July 1, 2019 to July 10, 2020 and the data for new cases and deaths over the period from December 31, 2019 to July 10, 2020, the results of our GARCH analysis show that liquidity in stock markets of all the sampled countries hit hard by the news of the Covid-19 outbreak. We find that for all sampled countries increase in illiquidity due to temporary shocks reverts to long term trend shortly, suggesting that the liquidity shocks due to the incidence of Covid-19 were short lived. The findings of our VAR analysis show an absence of any short-term relationship between Covid-19 new cases or deaths and illiquidity. Since the series are not integrated at same level, long-term relationship between Covid-19 and stock market illiquidity do not exist as well suggesting no evidence of the effect of Covid-19 on stock market liquidity.. Covid-19; stock market liquidity; GARCH; VAR; BRIC; G10; G01; I15. VOLATILITY SPILLOVERS; RETURN; TIME
Research on the dynamic spillover of stock markets under COVID-19-Taking the stock markets of China, Japan, and South Korea as an example. Examining stock market interactions between China (mainland China and Hong Kong), Japan, and South Korea, this study employs a framework that includes 239 economic variables to identify the spillover effects among these three countries, and empirically simulates the dynamic time-varying non-linear relationship between the stock markets of different countries. The findings are that in recent decades, China's stock market relied on Hong Kong's as a window to the exchange of price information with Japan and South Korea. More recently, the China stock market's spillover effect on East Asia has expanded. The spread of the crisis has strengthened co-movement between the stock markets of China, Japan, and South Korea.. spillover effects; stock market; financial integration; SV-TVP-FAVAR; COVID-19. VOLATILITY SPILLOVERS; INTEGRATION; EQUITY; COINTEGRATION; NETWORK; RETURN; ASIA
Mining the relationship between COVID-19 sentiment and market performance. In March 2020, the outbreak of COVID-19 precipitated one of the most significant stock market downturns in recent history. This paper explores the relationship between public sentiment related to COVID-19 and stock market fluctuations during the different phases of the pandemic. Utilizing natural language processing and sentiment analysis, we examine Twitter data for pandemic-related keywords to assess whether these sentiments can predict changes in stock market trends. Our analysis extends to additional datasets: one annotated by market experts to integrate professional financial sentiment with market dynamics, and another comprising long-term social media sentiment data to observe changes in public sentiment from the pandemic phase to the endemic phase. Our findings indicate a strong correlation between the sentiments expressed on social media and market volatility, particularly sentiments directly associated with stocks. These insights validate the effectiveness of our Sentiment(S)-LSTM model, which helps to understand the evolving dynamics between public sentiment and stock market trends from 2020 through 2023, as the situation shifts from pandemic to endemic and approaches new normalcy.. STOCK-MARKET; BEHAVIOR; MEDIA
Calendar Anomalies in African Stock Markets: Does the Effect of Covid-19 Pandemic Matter?. The Covid-19 pandemic profoundly disrupted global economies and financial systems, altering investor behavior and challenging traditional market dynamics. Among these disruptions, calendar anomalies, which challenge the efficient market hypothesis, offer a unique lens to assess market efficiency during crises. The objective of this study is to examine the impact of Covid-19 on calendar anomalies in the main African stock markets, an area largely overlooked in existing research despite the region's increasing importance in global financial systems. Using daily closing prices from January 1, 2009 to December 31, 2021, and employing a GJR-GARCH (1,1) model, the findings indicate that calendar anomalies exhibit temporal variation within the sample markets, influenced by trends that shift markets between periods of efficiency and inefficiency. Additionally, the study highlights the emergence of new calendar anomalies coinciding with the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic. These results offer lasting insights for investors, suggesting the need for dynamic trading strategies that can adapt to calendar anomalies during global crises. For policymakers, the research underscores the importance of reducing information asymmetry to enhance market resilience in times of crisis. The study also emphasizes the need for further research to explore how systemic shocks, such as Covid-19, can disrupt traditional market patterns and affect stock market behavior.. calendar anomalies; African stock markets; Covid-19; GJR-GARCH; efficient market; hypothesis. OF-THE-WEEK; HYPOTHESIS; RETURNS; SEASONALITY; VOLATILITY
Sectoral risk contagion and quantile network connectedness on Chinese stock sectors after the COVID-19 outbreak. PurposeThis study aims to explore the risk spillover effects among different sectors of the Chinese stock market after the outbreak of COVID-19 from both Internet sentiment and price fluctuations.Design/methodology/approachThe authors develop four indicators used for risk contagion analysis, including Internet investors and news sentiments constructed by the FinBERT model, together with realized and jump volatilities yielded by high-frequency data. The authors also apply the time-varying parameter vector autoregressive (TVP-VAR) model-based and the tail-based connectedness framework to investigate the interdependence of tail risk during catastrophic events.FindingsThe empirical analysis provides meaningful results related to the COVID-19 pandemic, stock market conditions and tail behavior. The results show that after the outbreak of COVID-19, the connectivity between risk spillovers in China's stock market has grown, indicating the increased instability of the connected system and enhanced connectivity in the tail. The changes in network structure during COVID-19 pandemic are not only reflected by the increased spillover connectivity but also by the closer relationships between some industries. The authors also found that major public events could significantly impact total connectedness. In addition, spillovers and network structures vary with market conditions and tend to exhibit a highly connected network structure during extreme market status.Originality/valueThe results confirm the connectivity between sentiments and volatilities spillovers in China's stock market, especially in the tails. The conclusion further expands the practical application and theoretical framework of behavioral finance and also lays a theoretical basis for investors to focus on the practical application of volatility prediction and risk management across stock sectors.. Industry sectors; Investor sentiment; Quantile network; Risk contagion. SENTIMENT; SPILLOVER; ENERGY; TOPOLOGY; DYNAMICS; MARKETS; US
Do world stock markets jump together? A measure of high-frequency volatility risk spillover networks. We provide a systematic framework for studying high-frequency risk connectedness among world stock markets. Our framework, based on high-frequency realized volatility decompositions, TVPVAR networks, and innovative extensions, shows risk connectedness among 16 world stock markets with respect to seven levels of high-frequency volatility. The findings are as follows. First, all seven levels of risk connectedness are significantly enhanced in response to extreme event shocks. The COVID-19 event led to a peak in total connectedness, and the event changed the structure of the spillover network the most, with markets in Asia-Pacific continent being the most affected by this event. The transmission of information is unique to different levels, with the bad volatility level being the strongest and the jump volatility level being the most sensitive. Second, there is a geographical effect on stock market performance, with the U.S. stock market being the most stable and dominant. The mainland Chinese stock market is the most vulnerable to volatility, being a net receiver of volatility 91.04% of the time. Third, we provide evidence of asymmetric spillovers at the level of good-bad volatility and good-bad jumps. The similarity between these two asymmetric effects is that the negative asymmetry is substantial and more pronounced in response to risky event shocks. The difference is that the asymmetry of good-bad jumps reflects more strongly the impact of crisis event shocks. Seven countries are dominated by pessimism most of the time, with the UK, Canada and Mexico being the main transmitters of pessimism, and their ability to transmit pessimism has increased during the crisis.. Financial risk spillovers; High -frequency realized volatility; Extreme financial events; Networks of good and bad jumps; Systemic financial risk. SYSTEMIC RISK; CAPITAL SHORTFALL; CRISIS; RETURN; CONNECTEDNESS; CONTAGION; MODEL; BAD; INTERDEPENDENCE; PREDICTABILITY
RETRACTED: The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic period on stock market return and volatility. Evidence from the Pakistan Stock Exchange (Retracted article. See vol. 20, 2025). The COVID-19 pandemic has emerged as a significant event of the current century, introducing substantial transformations in economic and social activities worldwide. The primary objective of this study is to investigate the relationship between daily COVID-19 cases and Pakistan stock market (PSX) return volatility. To assess the relationship between daily COVID-19 cases and the PSX return volatility, we collected secondary data from the World Health Organization (WHO) and the PSX website, specifically focusing on the PSX 100 index, spanning from March 15, 2020, to March 31, 2021. We used the GARCH family models for measuring the volatility and the COVID-19 impact on the stock market performance. Our E-GARCH findings show that there is long-term persistence in the return volatility of the stock market of Pakistan in the period of the COVID-19 timeline because ARCH alpha (omega 1) and GARCH beta (omega 2) are significant. Moreover, is asymmetrical effect is found in the stock market of Pakistan during the COVID-19 period due to Gamma being significant for PSX. Our DCC-GARCH results show that the COVID-19 active cases have a long-term spillover impact on the Pakistan stock market. Therefore, the need of strong planning and alternative platform should be needed in the distress period to promote the stock market and investor should advised to make diversified international portfolio by investing in high and low volatility stock market to save their income. This study advocated the implications for investors to invest in low volatility stock especially during the period of pandemics to protect their return on investment. Moreover, policy makers and the regulators can make effective policies to maintain financial stability during pandemics that is very important for the country's economic development.. RISK
Business applications and state-level stock market realized volatility: A forecasting experiment. We analyze the predictive value of (the surprise component of) state-level business applications, as a proxy of local investor sentiment, for the state-level realized US stock-market volatility. We use high-frequency data for the period from September 2011 to October 2021 to compute realized volatility. Using an extended version of the popular heterogeneous autoregressive realized volatility model and accounting for the possibility that users of forecasts have an asymmetric loss function, we show that business applications tend to have predictive value for realized state-level stock-market volatility, as well as for upside (good) and downside (bad) realized volatility, for users of forecasts who suffer a larger loss from an underprediction of realized volatility than from an overprediction of the same (absolute) seize, after controlling for realized moments (realized skewness, realized kurtosis, realized jumps, and realized tail risks). We also highlight that the COVID-19 period is a major driver of our empirical results.. business applications; forecasting; realized volatility; state-level investor sentiment; state-level stock markets. INVESTOR SENTIMENT; RETURNS; EQUITY; HAPPINESS
COVID-19 and stock market volatility: An industry level analysis. COVID-19 has had significant impact on US stock market volatility. This study focuses on understanding the regime change from lower to higher volatility identified with a Markov Switching AR model. Utilizing machine learning feature selection methods, economic indicators are chosen to best explain changes in volatility. Results show that volatility is affected by specific economic indicators and is sensitive to COVID-19 news. Both negative and positive COVID-19 information is significant, though negative news is more impactful, suggesting a negativity bias. Significant increases in total and idiosyncratic risk are observed across all industries, while changes in systematic risk vary across industry.. COVID-19; Stock market volatility; Industry; Total risk; Idiosyncratic risk; Machine Learning Feature Selection
Risk Connectedness among International Stock Markets: Fresh Findings from a Network Approach. In this study, we analyze the upside and downside risk connectedness among international stock markets. We characterize the connectedness among international stock returns using the Diebold and Yilmaz spillover index approach and compute the upside and downside value-at-risk. We document that the connectedness level of the downside risk is higher than that of the upside risk and stock markets are more sensitive when the stock market declines. We also find that specific periods (e.g., the global financial crisis, the European debt crisis, and the COVID-19 turmoil) intensified the spillover effects across international stock markets. Our results demonstrate that DE, UK, EU, and US acted as net transmitters of dynamic connectedness; however, Japan, China, India, and Hong Kong acted as net receivers of dynamic connectedness during the sample period. These findings provide significant new information to policymakers and market participants.. risk connectedness; value-at-risk; international stock market; extreme risk. IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; VOLATILITY SPILLOVERS; DYNAMICS; CHINESE; MODELS; RETURN; BAD
Has the COVID-19 pandemic shock transmitted to the u.s. stock market: Evidence using bootstrap (A)symmetric fourier granger causality test in quantiles. This study investigates whether the COVID-19 shocks transmitted to the U.S. stock market were symmetric or asymmetric using bootstrap quantile asymmetric Granger causality tests with or without the Fourier functions. The results indicate that while low quantiles of stock returns do not respond to COVID-19 shocks, the latter is a powerful predictor of high quantiles of stock returns. Besides, only positive COVID-19 shocks are potent predictors of high quantiles of stock market return. In contrast, adverse shocks adequately predict low quantiles of stock return. These findings have important policy implications for investors and policymakers who implement strategies for market stabilization.. Stock market; COVID-19; Granger non -causality; Asymmetric causality; Quantile regression method. IMPLIED VOLATILITY; NATURAL DISASTERS; IMPACT; INVESTORS; WAR
Economic uncertainty and stock market asymmetric volatility: analysis based on the asymmetric GARCH-MIDAS model. PurposeWe aim to clarify the effect of economic uncertainty on Chinese stock market fluctuations. We extend the understanding of the asymmetric connectedness between economic uncertainty and stock market risk and provide different characteristics of spillovers from economic uncertainty to both upside and downside risk. Furthermore, we aim to provide the different impact patterns of stock market volatility following several exogenous shocks.Design/methodology/approachWe construct a Chinese economic uncertainty index using a Factor-Augmented Variable Auto-Regressive Stochastic Volatility (FAVAR-SV) model for high-dimensional data. We then examine the asymmetric impact of realized volatility and economic uncertainty on the long-term volatility components of the stock market through the asymmetric Generalized Autoregressive Conditional Heteroskedasticity-Mixed Data Sampling (GARCH-MIDAS) model.FindingsNegative news, including negative return-related volatility and higher economic uncertainty, has a greater impact on the long-term volatility components than positive news. During the financial crisis of 2008, economic uncertainty and realized volatility had a significant impact on long-term volatility components but did not constitute long-term volatility components during the 2015 A-share stock market crash and the 2020 COVID-19 pandemic. The two-factor asymmetric GARCH-MIDAS model outperformed the other two models in terms of explanatory power, fitting ability and out-of-sample forecasting ability for the long-term volatility component.Research limitations/implicationsMany GARCH series models can also combine the GARCH series model with the MIDAS method, including but not limited to Exponential GARCH (EGARCH) and Threshold GARCH (TGARCH). These diverse models may exhibit distinct reactions to economic uncertainty. Consequently, further research should be undertaken to juxtapose alternative models for assessing the stock market response.Practical implicationsOur conclusions have important implications for stakeholders, including policymakers, market regulators and investors, to promote market stability. Understanding the asymmetric shock arising from economic uncertainty on volatility enables market participants to assess the potential repercussions of negative news, engage in timely and effective volatility prediction, implement risk management strategies and offer a reference for financial regulators to preemptively address and mitigate systemic financial risks.Social implicationsFirst, in the face of domestic and international uncertainties and challenges, policymakers must increase communication with the market and improve policy transparency to effectively guide market expectations. Second, stock market authorities should improve the basic regulatory system of the capital market and optimize investor structure. Third, investors should gradually shift to long-term value investment concepts and jointly promote market stability.Originality/valueThis study offers a novel perspective on incorporating a Chinese economic uncertainty index constructed by a high-dimensional FAVAR-SV model into the asymmetric GARCH-MIDAS model.. Economic uncertainty; Asymmetric effect; Long-term volatility component; GARCH-MIDAS; C32; C53; G17. FINANCIAL CRISIS; POLICY
COVID19-MLSF: A multi-task learning-based stock market forecasting framework during the COVID-19 pandemic. The sudden outbreak of COVID-19 has dramatically altered the state of the global economy, and the stock market has become more volatile and even fallen sharply as a result of its negative impact, heightening investors' apprehension regarding the correlation between unexpected events and stock market volatility. Additionally, internal and external characteristics coexist in the stock market. Existing research has struggled to extract more effective stock market features during the COVID-19 outbreak using a single time-series neural network model. This paper presents a framework for multitasking learning-based stock market forecasting (COVID-19-MLSF), which can extract the internal and external features of the stock market and their relationships effectively during COVID-19.The innovation comprises three components: designing a new market sentiment index (NMSI) and COVID-19 index to represent the external characteristics of the stock market during the COVID-19 pandemic. Besides, it introduces a multi-task learning framework to extract global and local features of the stock market. Moreover, a temporal convolutional neural network with a multi-scale attention mechanism is designed (MA-TCN) alongside a Multi-View Convolutional-Bidirectional Recurrent Neural Network with Temporal Attention (MVCNN-BiLSTM-Att), adjusting the model to account for the changing status of COVID-19 and its impact on the stock market. Experiments indicate that our model achieves superior performance both in terms of predicting the accuracy of the China CSI 300 Index during the COVID-19 period and in terms of sing market trading.. Stock market forecasting; COVID-19 pandemic; Multi-task learning; Feature fusion; K-nearest neighbor classifier. INVESTOR SENTIMENT; PRICE PREDICTION
Economic policy uncertainty as an indicator of abrupt movements in the US stock market. A two regime switching model is developed in an attempt to relate expected US stock market returns to deviations from fundamentals and to Economic Policy Uncertainty (EPU). The analysis is based on monthly data that cover the period from January 1900 to October 2022 and the EPU index is used as an explanatory variable. The findings suggest that the US stock market spends most of the time in a low -volatility regime, periodically switching to a high -volatility regime during times of financial instability. In an attempt to examine the forecasting ability of the model, out -of -sample probabilities of a crash and a boom are estimated recursively. The results provide evidence that our model is able to depict periods of abrupt movements in the US stock market. Finally, the estimated model and the associated probability of a crash are used to develop and evaluate a proposed trading strategy, in order to analyse the financial usefulness of the model. A simple simulation reveals that our trading rule produces statistically significant abnormal returns and manages to outperform the simple buy -and -hold strategy for the period before the Covid-19 crisis.. Economic policy uncertainty; Stock market; Regime switching model. SPECULATIVE BEHAVIOR; BUBBLES; TESTS; REGIME; PRICES
The contagion between stock markets: evidence from Vietnam and Asian emerging stocks in the context of COVID-19 Pandemic. Existing literature does not assess the contagion from emerging Asian stock markets to Vietnam amid the Pandemic. The bivariate VAR and BEKK-GARCH models in this study aim to analyse the return and volatility contagion effects between countries. The main findings reveal Philippine, Singapore, and Thai stocks' spread on the Vietnam index during the COVID-19 period. The direction from the Vietnam index towards Malaysia and the Philippines is opposite. This conclusion helps investors with more information to diversify their portfolios, minimize risks during the Pandemic.. BEKK-garch model; the emerging market; return; contagion; volatility; Covid-19. VOLATILITY SPILLOVERS; RETURN; TRANSMISSION; BEHAVIOR; DCC
1The Contagion Effect from U.S. Stock Market to the Vietnamese and the Philippine Stock Markets: The Evidence of DCC - GARCH Model. Using a DCC - GARCH model analysis, this paper examines the existence of financial contagion from the U.S. stock market to the Vietnamese and the Philippine stock markets during the global financial crisis and the COVID-19 pandemic crisis. We use daily data from the S&P 500 (U.S.), VN-Index (Vietnam), and the PSEi (the Philippines). As a result, there is no evidence of contagion from the U.S stock market to the Philippine stock market that can be found during global financial crisis, while the Vietnamese market is influenced by this effect. Besides, both these developing stock markets (the Vietnamese and Philippine stock markets) are influenced by the contagion effect in COVID-19 pandemic crisis. Another finding is that the contagion effect during the coronavirus pandemic crisis in Vietnam is smaller than that during the global financial crisis, however, the opposite is the case for the Philippines. It is noticed that the Philippines seems to be more affected by the contagion effect from the COVID-19 pandemic than Vietnam at the time of this study. Because financial contagion is important for monetary policy, asset pricing, risk measurement, and portfolio allocation, the findings in this paper may give some useful information for policymakers and investors.. Contagion; COVID-19; Financial Crisis; DCC - GARCH; Stock Market. EMERGING MARKETS; VOLATILITY; RETURNS
Pre- and Post-COVID-19: The Impact of US, UK, and European Stock Markets on ASEAN-5 Stock Markets. This study investigates the relationship between closing-opening prices of stocks in the US, UK, and European markets and the prices of stocks in the five Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN-5) markets, a group consisting of five founding members, namely, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand. In particular, this study examines the impact of US, UK, and European stock market movements on ASEAN-5 stock markets before and during the COVID-19 pandemic. An autoregressive distributed lag (ARDL) bounds testing approach was employed on two independent data sets, representing prices of stocks before and during the COVID-19 pandemic. The results reveal that among the ASEAN-5 markets, only the Philippines had a cointegration relationship with the US, UK, and European markets before the crisis. However, almost all ASEAN-5 markets moved in tandem with the US, UK, and European markets during COVID-19, except for Thailand. These empirical findings also indicate that the stock markets in the two regions tended to co-move during the COVID-19 pandemic, implying a contagion effect. Further, the causality results also provide substantial evidence of contagion between markets during the pandemic. These results imply that the stock markets in ASEAN-5 are susceptible at the opening bell to the behaviour of US, UK, and European stocks. Therefore, investors or traders in ASEAN-5 should participate in foreign markets (other than the US, UK, and Europe) that do not exhibit cointegration relationships to better mitigate and manage risk at the opening bell, especially during a global crisis.. COVID-19; stock markets; closing-opening prices; ARDL; ASEAN-5; US; UK; European. UNITED-STATES; INTERNATIONAL TRANSMISSION; OCTOBER 1987; TIME-SERIES; COINTEGRATION; INTERDEPENDENCE; VOLATILITY; WORLD; RISK
Effect of public sentiment on stock market movement prediction during the COVID-19 outbreak. Forecasting the stock market is one of the most difficult undertakings in the financial industry due to its complex, volatile, noisy, and nonparametric character. However, as computer science advances, an intelligent model can help investors and analysts minimize investment risk. Public opinion on social media and other online portals is an important factor in stock market predictions. The COVID-19 pandemic stimulates online activities since individuals are compelled to remain at home, bringing about a massive quantity of public opinion and emotion. This research focuses on stock market movement prediction with public sentiments using the long short-term memory network (LSTM) during the COVID-19 flare-up. Here, seven different sentiment analysis tools, VADER, logistic regression, Loughran-McDonald, Henry, TextBlob, Linear SVC, and Stanford, are used for sentiment analysis on web scraped data from four online sources: stock-related articles headlines, tweets, financial news from Economic Times and Facebook comments. Predictions are made utilizing both feeling scores and authentic stock information for every one of the 28 opinion measures processed. An accuracy of 98.11% is achieved by using linear SVC to calculate sentiment ratings from Facebook comments. Thereafter, the four estimated sentiment scores from each of the seven instruments are integrated with stock data in a step-by-step fashion to determine the overall influence on the stock market. When all four sentiment scores are paired with stock data, the forecast accuracy for five out of seven tools is at its most noteworthy, with linear SVC computed scores assisting stock data to arrive at its most elevated accuracy of 98.32%.. Web scraping; Sentiment analysis; Stock market prediction; Deep learning
Testing the nexus between stock market returns and inflation in Nigeria: Does the effect ofCOVID-19 pandemic matter?. Given the palpable fear generated by the threat of COVID-19 pandemic and the bearish sentiments of stock investors, this study represents one of the first efforts towards testing the effect of COVID-19 on the stock market returns-inflation relationship. Specifically, the study investigates the stock market returns-inflation nexus by controlling for the effect of COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria from February 27, 2020 to April 30, 2020. Using the estimation procedures based on the generalized autoregressive conditional heteroskedasticity type models (GARCH (1,1), the GJR-GARCH), and the accounting innovation tests, our results show that COVID-19 increases volatility and distorts the positive relationship between inflation and stock market returns, which tends to negate the Fisher's hypothesis. In addition, the results reveal that the negative effects of COVID-19 on the market returns and its disruption to the stock market returns-inflation relationship may not die away rapidly considering that the duration of the pandemic is unknown. Further, these findings are validated by the innovation accounting tests. Therefore, the study presents to policymakers the consequences of COVID-19 and the urgent need to strengthen the market through collaborative efforts.. VOLATILITY; POLICY
Investigation of herding behavior using machine learning models. PurposeThe study aims to investigate the presence of herding behavior in the stock market of UK with a special emphasis on news sentiment regarding the economy. The authors focus on the news sentiment because in the current digital era, investors take their decision making on the basis of current trends projected by news and media platforms.Design/methodology/approachFor empirical modeling, the authors use machine learning models to investigate the presence of herding behavior in UK stock market for the period starting from 2006 to 2021. The authors use support vector regression, single layer neural network and multilayer neural network models to predict the herding behavior in the stock market of the UK. The authors estimate the herding coefficients using all the models and compare the findings with the linear regression model.FindingsThe results show a strong evidence of herding behavior in the stock market of the UK during different time regimes. Furthermore, when the authors incorporate the economic uncertainty news sentiment in the model, the results show a significant improvement. The results of support vector regression, single layer perceptron and multilayer perceptron model show the evidence of herding behavior in UK stock market during global financial crises of 2007-08 and COVID'19 period. In addition, the authors compare the findings with the linear regression which provides no evidence of herding behavior in all the regimes except COVID'19. The results also provide deep insights for both individual investors and policy makers to construct efficient portfolios and avoid market crashes, respectively.Originality/valueIn the existing literature of herding behavior, news sentiment regarding economic uncertainty has not been used before. However, in the present era this parameter is quite critical in context of market anomalies hence and needs to be investigated. In addition, the literature exhibits varying results about the existence of herding behavior when different methodologies are used. In this context, the use of machine learning models is quite rare in the herding literature. The machine learning models are quite robust and provide accurate results. Therefore, this research study uses three different models, i.e. single layer perceptron model, multilayer perceptron model and support vector regression model to investigate the herding behavior in the stock market of the UK. A comparative analysis is also presented among the results of all the models. The study sheds light on the importance of economic uncertainty news sentiment to predict the herding behavior.. Behavioural finance; Herding behaviour; Machine learning; C22; C58; G01; G15; G41. STOCK; SENTIMENT; IMPACT; EQUILIBRIUM; INFORMATION; VOLATILITY; INSIGHTS; MARKETS; PRICES; MEDIA
Deciphering the Risk-Return Dynamics of Pharmaceutical Companies Using the GARCH-M Model. This study focuses on the precise forecasting of stock price movement to determine returns, diversify risk, and demystify existing opportunities. It also aims to gauge the difference in terms of the stock volatility of various pharma companies before and during the pandemic era. The prediction of stock market volatility and associated risks is demonstrated by using the GARCH-M model. A sample is collected by clustering daily closing and opening prices from the official websites of the top ten pharmaceutical companies listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange for ten years, from 2012 to 2023. It is evident when using the GARCH-M model, which indicates pharma stock volatility clustering before the COVID-19 pandemic, that a significant relationship is present between risk and return and that these could cause future volatility and significant price movements. Before the COVID-19 pandemic, investors had time to adjust to market conditions, as the volatility was constant but less sensitive to transient shocks. Though it passed faster than ever, the COVID-19 pandemic produced significant market instability. The findings suggest that, especially before the COVID-19 pandemic, the high GARCH(-1) coefficients held Merton's ICAPM, which maintains that past volatility shapes future returns. This sort of activity is compatible with the way financial markets usually operate. The findings suggest that volatility rose after the COVID-19 pandemic, but this was more because of changes in government policies and vaccines than because of regular market forces. Pricing patterns are dominated by stock interventions, liquidity constraints, and sentiments during a crisis period when volatility becomes irrelevant. Appropriate decision-making by individual investors, portfolio managers, and policymakers regarding the stock market is possible through effective prediction based on time-series analysis. The GARCH-M model is compatible with predicting future stock price changes efficiently. This study uniquely applies the GARCH-M model to the Indian pharmaceutical sector, offering valuable insights into stock volatility and risk-return dynamics, particularly during the COVID-19 pandemic.. pharmaceutical sector; BSE stock indices; GARCH-M model; risk; return volatility; COVID-19. TIME-SERIES; VOLATILITY; FOREIGN; PERFORMANCE; INDUSTRY; IMPACT
The impact of COVID-19 pandemic on the volatility connectedness network of global stock market. This paper investigates how the COVID-19 pandemic affects the connectedness network of stock market volatility in 19 economies around the world. Our method builds on the Diebold-Yilmaz volatility network model to construct the volatility spillover index, and uses lag sparse group LASSO to accommodate the high-dimensional system. We find that the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic strengthens the overall volatility connectedness, and the global connectedness level remains high throughout 2020. In particular, connections across different continents have become stronger during this period. However, China is shown to be disconnected from the global volatility connectedness network until late November 2020. We find evidence that China is not the main source of volatility spillover during the COVID-19 pandemic.. COVID-19; Network connectedness; Spillover index; Variance decomposition. IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS
Does foreign equity investment impact the spillover effect of industries in China?. This study aims to systematically investigate the impact of foreign equity investment on the spillover across industries in China, both in terms of the contagion path and persistence of shocks and the performance during the COVID-19 pandemic. We use daily data on returns covering 2014 to 2022 and apply linear and non-linear causality tests and spillover framework. Our findings show that the two proxies of foreign investment, net buying and & UDelta; Net Buying, significantly shock the spillover across 11 industry indexes of China's stock market, particularly the spillover output and long-term spillover received of sectors. During the COVID-19 pandemic, international investors are bullish on China's economy reflected in the continuous inflow of northbound trading, and the short-run influence on China's stock market is weakened, while the long-run impact remains. Moreover, financial networks suggest that the path of movement international capital movement to accomplish overall contagion through shock in certain specific industries. Overall, this study evidence that the northbound trading generally overlooked by researchers is indeed an important channel of financial contagion to China's stock market.. Financial contagion; Foreign equity investment; China's industries; Spillover effects; Causality test. SHANGHAI-HONG KONG; STOCK-MARKET; FINANCIAL LIBERALIZATION; CONTAGION; INTEGRATION; US; VOLATILITY; INTERDEPENDENCE; CONNECTEDNESS; DYNAMICS
INVESTOR SENTIMENTS, THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC AND ISLAMIC STOCK RETURN VOLATILITY IN INDONESIA. Purpose - This study aims to investigate the effect of investor sentiments, as measured by the Consumer Confidence Index (CCI), and the impact of COVID-19 on Islamic stock return volatility proxied by the Indonesia Sharia Stock Index (ISSI). Design/Methodology/Approach - This study employs the GARCH (1,1) model to test the impact of investor sentiments and COVID-19 on the volatility of Islamic stock returns using monthly data from July 2011 to December 2021. Findings - The findings of this study indicate that investor sentiments negatively impact the volatility of Islamic stock returns; while COVID-19 caused a high and persistent effect on Islamic stock return volatility. Originality/Value - Research on investor behaviour and volatility in the Islamic capital market (ICM) is limited. Investor sentiment is an essential variable in predicting the volatility level of stock returns. Investors must be aware of major events that are happening globally, such as COVID-19. This research specifically focuses on the sentiments of Islamic stock investors in Indonesia. Research Limitations/Implications - This study uses a traditional GARCH model for variance and is limited to the Islamic stock market in Indonesia. Only a few variables were assessed, notably investor sentiments and COVID-19 on the impact of stock return volatility, using monthly data. Practical Implications - Research on market volatility will significantly help investors, companies and regulators determine strategies to overcome risks. This research illustrates how investor behaviour can influence the movement of stock returns. A global event, notably the COVID-19 pandemic, proved to have significantly impacted the conditions of ICMs.. Consumer Confidence Index; COVID-19; Financial empowerment; GARCH; Indonesia; Investor sentiments; Sharia Stock Index; Volatility. MARKET VOLATILITY; PREDICT
The effect of COVID-19 on Indian stock market volatility: can economic package control the uncertainty?. Purpose The stock market has shown fluctuating degrees of volatility because of the recent COVID-19 pandemic in India. The present research aims to investigate the effect of the COVID-19 on the stock market volatility, and whether the economic package can control the market volatility or not, measured by a set of certain sector-level economic features and factors such as resilience variables. Design/methodology/approach We examine the correlation matrix, basic volatility model and robustness tests to determine the sector-level economic features and macroeconomic factors helpful in diminishing the volatility rising because of the COVID-19. Findings The outcomes of this study are significant as policymakers and financial analysts can apply these economic factors to set policy replies to handle the unexpected fluctuation in the stock market in sequence to circumvent any thinkable future financial crisis. Originality/value The originality of the paper is to measure the variables affecting the stock market volatility due to COVID-19, and understand the impact of capital market macroeconomic variables and dummy variables to theoretically explain the COVID-19 impact on stock market volatility.. Resilience; Capital market; Stock market volatility; Macroeconomic variables; COVID-19; D53; E22; E31; E32; F62. SPILLOVERS; TRANSMISSION; CONNECTEDNESS; CONTAGION; BUSINESS; RETURNS; US
Effects of COVID-19 on Football Stock Market's Return and Uncertainty. The cancellation of mass gatherings was one of the earliest measures implemented to combat the spread of COVID-19. One of the sectors affected by this situation was sports organizations. The study aimed to analyze the impact of COVID-19 on the returns and volatility of football club stocks using mean and variance estimates. In line with this aim, the Stoxx Football Index was used to estimate the stocks of football clubs, and a dummy variable was used to estimate the effect of COVID-19. According to the analyses, it was found that COVID-19 had a negative and statistically significant impact on football index revenue. On the other hand, the results of the second moment analysis, the EGARCH-X model, suggested an increase in the Stoxx Football Index conditional variance (volatility) due to COVID-19.. coronavirus; football stock market; ARIMA; EGARCH. TIME-SERIES; EVENTS; SOCCER; SPORT; PERFORMANCE; PERCEPTION; SENTIMENT; BEHAVIOR
A Conceptual Model of Investment-Risk Prediction in the Stock Market Using Extreme Value Theory with Machine Learning: A Semisystematic Literature Review. The COVID-19 pandemic has been an extraordinary event, the type of event that rarely occurs but that has major impacts on the stock market. The pandemic has created high volatility and caused extreme fluctuations in the stock market. The stock market can be characterized as either linear or nonlinear. One method that can detect extreme fluctuations is extreme value theory (EVT). This study employed a semisystematic literature review on the use of the EVT method to estimate investment risk in the stock market. The literature used was selected by applying the preferred reporting items for systematic review and meta-analyses (PRISMA) guidelines, sourced from the ScienceDirect.com, ProQuest, and Scopus databases. A bibliometric analysis was conducted to determine the study characteristics and identify any research gaps. The results of the analysis show that studies on this topic are rarely carried out. Research in this field is generally performed only in univariate cases and is very complicated in multivariate cases. Given these limitations, further research could focus on developing a conceptual model that is dynamic and sensitive to extreme fluctuations, with multivariable inputs, in order to predict investment risk. The model developed here considered the variables that affect stock price fluctuations as the input data. The combination of VaR-EVT and machine-learning methods is effective in increasing model accuracy because it combines linear and nonlinear models.. COVID-19; extreme value theory; machine learning; nonlinear; VaR. TIME; RETURN
Stock market volatility spillovers from US to China: The pivotal role of Hong Kong. This study investigates the dynamic volatility spillovers among the stock markets of China, Hong Kong, and the U.S., focusing on Hong Kong as the intermediary transmitter. We find that the U.S. emerges as the primary transmitter of returns and volatility, with Hong Kong being the major recipient. By decomposing the Hong Kong volatility into U.S. and non-U.S. related components, we confirm the intermediary role of Hong Kong in transmitting U.S. monetary policy shocks to China. In addition, our results reveal time-varying patterns and high sensitivity of these spillover transmissions to the U.S.-China trade war, COVID-19 pandemic, and financial crises. These findings highlight Hong Kong's critical role as a financial hub and provide key implications for policymakers aiming to enhance financial stability through cross-market regulations. Investors can also benefit from this knowledge when developing strategies to manage risks tied to global market uncertainties.. Spillover; Realized variance; COVID-19 pandemic; Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC). CONNECTEDNESS; BAD
Volatility Spillover Effects during Pre-and-Post COVID-19 Outbreak on Indian Market from the USA, China, Japan, Germany, and Australia. We examined volatility spillover effects from five prominent global stock markets to India's stock market during the pre-and-post COVID-19 outbreak using daily adjusted closing prices between January 2019 and September 2021 from six capital markets. The structural breakpoint was identified as 23 March 2020, as per the breakpoint unit root test, to examine and compare the results pre-and-post COVID-19. Results show that previous period news and volatility feeds the next period's volatility significantly and the volatility is found to be persistent. The analysis also shows that during the pre-COVID period there is a negative significant volatility spillover from four of the five selected stock markets (Australia, China, Japan, and Germany) to the Indian stock market, and that spillover continues in the post-COVID period. There is a positive significant return and volatility spillover from the US market to the Indian stock market in the post-COVID-19 period. The results of our study will be useful for retail investors and portfolio managers in understanding the portfolio allocation methods in case of volatility spillover arising due to the crisis caused by the COVID-19 outbreak.. stock returns; volatility; investment; asymmetry; spillover; EGARCH; COVID-19. STOCK-MARKET; RETURNS; TRANSMISSION; INTEGRATION; PRICES
Spillovers of Stock Markets among the BRICS: New Evidence in Time and Frequency Domains before the Outbreak of COVID-19 Pandemic. We attempted to comprehensively decode the connectedness among the abbreviation of five emerging market countries (BRICS) stock markets between 1 August 2002 and 31 December 2019 not only in time domain but also in frequency domain. A continuously varying spillover index based on forecasting error variance decomposition within a generalized abbreviation of vector-autoregression (VAR) framework was computed. With the help of spectral representation, heterogeneous frequency responses to shocks were separated into frequency-specific spillovers in five different frequency bands to reveal differentiated linkages among BRICS markets. Rolling sample analyses were introduced to allow for multiple changes during the sample period. It is found that return spillovers dominated by the high frequency band (within 1 week) part declined with the drop of frequencies, while volatility spillovers dominated by the low frequency band (above 1 quarter) part grew with the decline in frequencies; the dynamics of spillovers were influenced by crucial systematic risk events, and some similarities implied in the spillover dynamics in different frequency bands were found. From the perspective of identifying systematic risk sources, China's stock market and Russia's stock market, respectively, played an influential role for return spillover and volatility spillover across BRICS markets.. return spillovers; volatility spillovers; stock market linkage; the BRICS; frequency domain. IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; VOLATILITY SPILLOVERS; INTERNATIONAL TRANSMISSION; RETURN; CONNECTEDNESS; MOVEMENTS; ENERGY
A large-scale microblog dataset and stock movement prediction based on Supervised Contrastive Learning model. The integration of Deep Neural Networks (DNN) with Natural Language Processing (NLP) technologies has opened new avenues in financial market prediction, particularly through the utilization of textual information. This study represents a significant advancement, which offers two primary contributions to stock trend prediction: (i) the exploitation of textual data (news, comments, microblogs) using advanced DNN architectures, enhancing market information utilization; (ii) significant improvement of the accuracy of predicting the direction of stock volatility by integrating textual and neural network technologies. Meanwhile, we have crawled, filtered, and constructed a large-scale microblog dataset. This dataset includes approximately 114,992 microblog textual data from 40 Science and Technology Innovation Board (STIB) companies in China during 2021. We conducted a comprehensive analysis using various DNN techniques, including Feedback Neural Networks (FNN), Supervised Contrastive Learning (SCL), Cross Entropy (CE), and Dual Contrastive Learning (DualCL), in conjunction with bag of words models, BERT, and Roberta compilers. Our findings reveal that the SCL method, when combined with microblog data, significantly increases prediction accuracy, particularly during the COVID-19 period. Furthermore, we discovered that using a cross -stock dataset enhances the accuracy of all prediction methods, and random allocation of microblog data leads to better results than sequential allocation. Additionally, we compared the efficacy of traditional models like the CAPM, three -factor, and five -factor models against neural network -based methods. Our results suggest a notable superiority of the SCL method in increasing prediction accuracy. Finally, applying our findings to real -world trading strategies, we demonstrated the practical advantages of using the SCL method in trading, evidenced by significant improvements across all performance indicators.. Supervised Contrastive Learning; Stock market; A large-scale microblog dataset; Natural Language Processing. SENTIMENT; NETWORK; PRICES; NEWS
Machine and deep learning-based stock price prediction during the COVID-19 pandemic: the case of CAC 40 index. PurposeThe goal of this study is to investigate the predictive performance of the machine and deep learning methods in predicting the CAC 40 index and its 40 constituent prices of the French stock market during the COVID-19 pandemic. The study objective in forecasting the CAC 40 index is to analyze if the index and the individual prices will preserve the continuous increase they acquired at the beginning of the administration of vaccination and containment measures or if the negative effect of the pandemic will be reflected in the future.Design/methodology/approachThe authors apply two machine and deep learning methods (KNN and LSTM) and compare their performances to ARIMA time series model. Two scenarios have been considered: optimistic (high values) and pessimistic (low values) and four periods are examined: the period before COVID-19 pandemic, the period during the COVID-19, and the period of vaccination and containment. The last period is divided into two sub-periods: the test period and the prediction period.FindingsThe authors found that the KNN method performed better than LSTM and ARIMA in forecasting the CAC 40 index for both scenarios. The authors also identified that the positive effect of vaccination and containment outweighs the negative effect of the pandemic, and the recovery pattern is not even among major companies in the stock market.Practical implicationsThe study empirical results have valuable practical implications for companies in the stock market to respond to unexpected events such as COVID-19, improve operational efficiency and enhance long-term competitiveness. Companies in the transportation sector should consider additional investment in R&D on communication and information technology, accelerate their digital capabilities, at least in some parts of their businesses, develop plans for lights out factories and supply chains to keep pace with changing times, and even include big data resources. Additionally, they should also use a mix of financing sources and securities in order to diversify their capital structure, and not rely only on equity financing as their share prices are volatile and below the pre-pandemic level. Considering portfolio allocation, the transportation sector was severely affected by the pandemic. This displays that transportation equities fail to be a candidate as a good diversifier during the health crisis. However, the diversification would be worth it while including assets related to the banking and industrial sectors. On another strand, the instability of this period induced an informational asymmetry among investors. This pessimistic mood affected the assets' value and created a state of disequilibrium opening up more opportunities to benefit from potential arbitrage profits.Originality/valueThe impact of COVID-19 on stock markets is significant and affects investor behavior, who suffered amplified losses in a very short period of time. In this regard, correct and well-informed decision-making by investors and other market participants requires careful analysis and accurate prediction of the stock markets during the pandemic. However, few studies have been conducted in this area, and those studies have either concentrated on some specific stock markets or did not apply the powerful machine learning and deep learning techniques such as LSTM and KNN. To the best of our knowledge, no research has been conducted that used these techniques to assess and forecast the CAC 40 French stock market during the pandemic. This study tries to close this gap in the literature.. CAC 40 index; COVID-19; KNN; LSTM; Machine and deep learning; Stock markets. MARKET; REGRESSION
Analyzing communicability and connectivity in the Indian stock market during crises. Understanding how information flows through the financial networks is important, especially during times of market turbulence. Unlike traditional assumptions where information travels along the shortest paths, real-world diffusion processes often follow multiple routes. To capture this complexity, we apply communicability, a network measure that quantifies the ease of information flow between nodes, even beyond the shortest path. In this study, we aim to examine how communicability responds to structural disruptions in financial networks during periods of high volatility. We compute communicability-based metrics on correlation-derived networks constructed from financial market data, and apply statistical testing through permutation methods to identify significant shifts in network structure. Our results show that approximately 70% and 80% of stock pairs exhibit statistically significant changes in communicability during the global financial crisis and the unprecedented COVID-19 crisis, respectively, at a significance level of 0.001. The observed shifts in shortest communicability path lengths offer directional cues about the nature and depth of each crisis. Furthermore, when used as features in machine learning classification models, communicability measures outperform the shortest-path-based measures in distinguishing between market stability and volatility periods. The performance of geometric measures was also comparable to that of topology-based measures. These findings offer valuable insights into the dynamic behavior of financial markets during times of crises and underscore the practical relevance of communicability in modeling systemic risk and information diffusion in complex networks.. financial network analysis; complex network; communicability measure; support vector machine. CENTRALITY; NETWORKS; SELECTION; GEOMETRY
Does the COVID-19 outbreak affect dynamic co-movement among the stock markets of China, Japan, and the USA?. The research examines the effect of the COVID-19 outbreak on the dynamic co-movement of the stock markets of China, Japan, and the USA using a VAR model and a DCC-GJR-GARCH model. Especially, this study focuses on during and preceding the COVID period. This study data period extends from 1 January 2016 to 31 April 2022. The results demonstrate that COVID-19's effect increases stock market volatility. Meanwhile, the VAR model revealed that the USA's exogeneity was greater during COVID-19. In addition, the pre-crisis Granger Causality between China-USA and Japan-China is substantially higher than during the crisis. The findings of DCC-GJR-GARCH indicate the presence of volatility clustering in each of the stock markets. Moreover, the results suggest that the time-varying correlations between China and the USA during the pre-COVID period are greater than during the COVID period. The study's findings highlight that investors attempting to increase investment diversification opportunities worldwide should always consider dynamic co-movement in different periods to maximize returns and minimize risk.. Dynamic co-movement; DCC-GJR-GARCH; stock markets; COVID-19; stock returns. GLOBAL FINANCIAL CRISIS; TIME-SERIES; UNIT-ROOT; IMPACT; CONTAGION; LINKAGES
Optimizing Stock Market Returns during Global Pandemic Using Regression in the Context of Indian Stock Market. Stock markets around the world experienced a massive collapse during the first wave of COVID-19. Roughly in the month of January 2021, the second wave of COVID-19 struck in India, reaching its peak in May, and by the end of May, the active cases started to decline. A third wave is again predicted by the end of 2021, and as such, the COVID-19 pandemic seems to have become a periodic phenomenon over the last couple of years. Therefore, the study of the behavior of the stock market as well as that of the investors becomes very interesting and crucial in this highly volatile and vulnerable market trend. Motivated by these facts, in the present paper, the researcher develops a model for portfolio management, using curve-fitting techniques and shows that this model can encounter the market volatility efficiently in the context of the Indian stock market. The portfolio is designed based on data taken from the National Stock Exchange (NSE), India, during 1 January 2020 to 31 December 2020. The performance of the portfolio in real-life situation during 1 January 2021 to 21 May 2021 is examined, assuming investments are made according to the proposed model.. stock prediction; regression; method of least squares; COVID-19; mutual fund; portfolio management. SYSTEM
Long-term effect of Fits on Indian stock market. The Indian stock market has reacted positively and bounced back in crisis like pandemics and recession. Foreign inflows have been recorded highest among the emerging economies. Indian stock market is dominated by two major stock indices namely NIFTY-50 and Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive index (BSE SENSEX). This study evaluates the long-term impact of FII on the Indian stock market considering these stock exchanges. 'This study applies Augmented Dickey-Fuller (ADF) and Phillips Perron (PP) for estimating the stationarity of the data. Generalized Autoregressive Conditionally Heteroscedastic (GARCH) model has been applied to measure the volatility of the stock market. The selected indices are found to be significantly influenced by FIIs.. Indian Stock Market; NIFTY; BSE; SENSEX; GARCH; ADF; PP
Stock market volatility from the Covid-19 pandemic: New evidence from the Asia-Pacific region. Responses from stock markets to the Covid-19 pandemic appear to change over time. Recent responses might differ as herd mentality in stock markets tends to become herd immunity to the pandemic. This study revisits the pandemic's effects on the Asia-Pacific countries' market volatility over the past 25 months. Primarily, we examine the changes of the impacts of the pandemic on volatility between the first pandemic period (2020) and the second period (January 2021-January 2022). Our findings indicate that implementing pandemic control measures helps reduce market volatility at the country and region levels. The effects of new Covid-19 cases and pandemic control measures on market volatility have been dramatically fading since 2021. The Toda-Yamamoto causality test and the panel impulse response functions from panel VAR estimation are also used for robustness analysis. Based on our findings, it appears that the current pandemic may no longer be blamed for stock market volatility in the Asia -Pacific region.. Market volatility; Government responses; GARCH models; Toda-Yamamoto causality test; Panel VAR; Asia-Pacific region. HETEROSKEDASTICITY
How to calm down the markets? The effects of COVID-19 economic policy responses on financial market uncertainty. Financial markets during the COVID-19 pandemic are characterized by a prolonged period of increased uncertainty. In this paper, we analyse how the announcements of policy interventions and responses, to buffer short-term economic impact of the pandemic and offset financial turmoil, have affected the level of realized volatility in 23 countries. Under the augmented heterogeneous autoregressive model framework, we show that the international calming effect of COVID-19 economic policy actions originates from the US macroprudential policy announcements.. Volatility; Market uncertainty; COVID-19; Policy actions; Macroprudential policy. VOLATILITY; SELECTION; MODEL
Volatility Modelling of the Johannesburg Stock Exchange All Share Index Using the Family GARCH Model. In numerous domains of finance and economics, modelling and predicting stock market volatility is essential. Predicting stock market volatility is widely used in the management of portfolios, analysis of risk, and determination of option prices. This study is about volatility modelling of the daily Johannesburg Stock Exchange All Share Index (JSE ALSI) stock price data between 1 January 2014 and 29 December 2023. The modelling process incorporated daily log returns derived from the JSE ALSI. The following volatility models were presented for the period: sGARCH(1, 1) and fGARCH(1, 1). The models for volatility were fitted using five unique error distribution assumptions, including Student's t, its skewed version, the generalized error and skewed generalized error distributions, and the generalized hyperbolic distribution. Based on information criteria such as Akaike, Bayesian, and Hannan-Quinn, the ARMA(0, 0)-fGARCH(1, 1) model with a skewed generalized error distribution emerged as the best fit. The chosen model revealed that the JSE ALSI prices are highly persistent with the leverage effect. JSE ALSI price volatility was notably influenced during the COVID-19 pandemic. The forecast over the next 10 days shows a rise in volatility. A comparative study was then carried out with the JSE Top 40 and the S&P500 indices. Comparison of the FTSE/JSE Top 40, S&P 500, and JSE ALLSI return indices over the COVID-19 pandemic indicated higher initial volatility in the FTSE/JSE Top 40 and S&P 500, with the JSE ALLSI following a similar trend later. The S&P 500 showed long-term reliability and high rolling returns in spite of short-run volatility, the FTSE/JSE Top 40 showed more pre-pandemic risk and volatility but reduced levels of rolling volatility after the pandemic, similar in magnitude for each index with low correlations among them. These results provide important insights for risk managers and investors navigating the South African equity market.. family GARCH; forecasting; standard GARCH; volatility modelling. BEHAVIOR
Volatility in Indian Stock Markets During COVID-19: An Analysis of Equity Investment Strategies. The aim of the paper is to evaluate the impact of novel COVID-19 on the returns and volatility of Indian stock markets with special reference to equity investment strategies of the Bombay Stock Exchange. For the purpose of evaluating the impact, the study has applied GARCH. The research has considered a time frame from March 2015 to January 2021. Prior to implementing GARCH model, pre-estimation tests (i.e., augmented Dickey-Fuller and ARCH-Lagrange multiplier) were conducted. Outcomes clearly indicate that the returns during the crisis for all the strategy indices have been negative, which means that the COVID-19 outbreak resulted in massive losses. Additionally, 'during crisis' period showed an increase in volatility for all the strategy indices depicting that the pandemic has a long-lasting effect and will take time to fade off. This research will help the investors in the investment decision process by giving them insights about the different strategies.. BSE; COVID-19; Equity Investment Strategies; GARCH; India; Indian Stock Market Performance. IMPACT; EVENT
Dynamic connectedness between stock markets in the presence of the COVID-19 pandemic: does economic policy uncertainty matter?. This study investigates the dynamic connectedness between stock indices and the effect of economic policy uncertainty (EPU) in eight countries where COVID-19 was most widespread (China, Italy, France, Germany, Spain, Russia, the US, and the UK) by implementing the time-varying VAR (TVP-VAR) model for daily data over the period spanning from 01/01/2015 to 05/18/2020. Results showed that stock markets were highly connected during the entire period, but the dynamic spillovers reached unprecedented heights during the COVID-19 pandemic in the first quarter of 2020. Moreover, we found that the European stock markets (except Italy) transmitted more spillovers to all other stock markets than they received, primarily during the COVID-19 outbreak. Further analysis using a nonlinear framework showed that the dynamic connectedness was more pronounced for negative than for positive returns. Also, findings showed that the direction of the EPU effect on net connectedness changed during the pandemic onset, indicating that information spillovers from a given market may signal either good or bad news for other markets, depending on the prevailing economic situation. These results have important implications for individual investors, portfolio managers, policymakers, investment banks, and central banks.. Stock markets; Dynamic connectedness; COVID-19 pandemic; Economic policy uncertainty; TVP-VAR model. VOLATILITY SPILLOVERS; CONTAGION; RETURNS
Chasing the black swan and the grey rhino: volatility asymmetries in the Indian stock market. PurposeThis study aims to investigate the impact of volatility asymmetries and external shocks, including the global financial crisis of 2007 and the COVID-19 pandemic, on the returns and volatility of the stock market in the Indian context.Design/methodology/approachThe data used is extensive, covering around 24 years of stock market activity in terms of prices and subsequent returns. To achieve the objectives, variants of conditional models that incorporate the effect of volatility asymmetries and external shocks have been estimated.FindingsThis study found that the asymmetric effect is significant, and due to both the global financial crisis and the COVID-19 pandemic, volatility has increased significantly. The inclusion of the asymmetric effect of volatility, global financial crisis and COVID-19 into volatility modeling reveals that the effect of both past innovation or shocks and past volatility has increased, which is evident from the change in lag length structure found in different conditional models of volatility.Research limitations/implicationsThis study has important implications for understanding the dynamics of stock market volatility across various economic phases. It provides insights into how stock markets evolve in terms of volatility swings and the subsequent price formation. Moreover, this study provides insights for policymakers to devise efficient mechanisms to control the possible effects of such shocks on the financial system.Originality/valueThis study contributes toward a comparative study of events based on their likelihood of occurrence and thereupon impact on stock market performance.. GARCH; ASYMMETRIC effect; Global financial crisis; COVID-19; Black swan event; Grey rhino event; Volatility modeling. RETURN; CONTAGION; MODELS; IMPACT
Effects of COVID-19 on Football Stock Market's Return and Uncertainty. The cancellation of mass gatherings was one of the earliest measures implemented to combat the spread of COVID-19. One of the sectors affected by this situation was sports organizations. The study aimed to analyze the impact of COVID-19 on the returns and volatility of football club stocks using mean and variance estimates. In line with this aim, the Stoxx Football Index was used to estimate the stocks of football clubs, and a dummy variable was used to estimate the effect of COVID-19. According to the analyses, it was found that COVID-19 had a negative and statistically significant impact on football index revenue. On the other hand, the results of the second moment analysis, the EGARCH-X model, suggested an increase in the Stoxx Football Index conditional variance (volatility) due to COVID-19.. coronavirus; football stock market; ARIMA; EGARCH. TIME-SERIES; EVENTS; SOCCER; SPORT; PERFORMANCE; PERCEPTION; SENTIMENT; BEHAVIOR
Casablanca Stock Exchange response to the COVID-19 pandemic. This study investigates the Casablanca Stock Exchange response to the COVID-19 by considering the impact of the COVID-19 related cases and deaths of eleven selected countries affected by the COVID-19, including Morocco, on the Moroccan Stock Market (MASI Index), over the period from June 13, 2019, to June 11, 2020. This study employs the GARCH (1,1) model for this purpose, in which we are allowing for the impact of changes in the COVID-19 related cases and deaths in both the conditional-mean and the conditional heteroscedasticity equations. Furthermore, we extend our analysis by employing the VAR-X model to examine stock market returns and trading volume response to the COVID-19 related cases and deaths. Finally, we use the Markov-Switching models to inspect whether the COVID-19 has caused a structural break in the stock market returns. Empirical results indicate that in some of the selected countries, changes in the number of cases and deaths related to the COVID-19 have had an impact on the volatility of the MASI Index as well as the MASI Index returns. Furthermore, the Markov-Switching model results suggest that at the end of February 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic crisis has caused a structural break on MASI Index returns and the relationship between trading volume and MASI index returns has turned negative.. COVID-19; Casablanca Stock Exchange; MASI index; GARCH model; VAR-X model; Markov-Switching model
Risk-Return Trade-off and Volatility Characteristics in the Indian Stock Market. The study examines the volatility characteristics of Indian stock markets and their trade-off between the risk and return. It finds a positive but insignificant association between the risk and returns during the subsample (the pre-COVID and COVID pandemic outbreak) and whole sample periods. The study also shows that the weak form of Indian stock markets is not sustainable. Consistent with the GARCH literature, persistent and asymmetric effects are evidenced, and the magnitude of the negative shocks has a larger immediate impact than the positive shocks. These results would help measure the volatility in the Indian stock markets and provide investors and regulators with necessary information about the market efficiency, persistency (long-memory process) and asymmetric effects.. hybrid GARCH-Mean type models; asymmetric volatility; volatility clustering; risk-return trade-off; weak-form efficiency
Chinese stock market integration with developed world: A portfolio diversification analysis. This study investigates integration dynamics between the Chinese stock market and major developed counterparts - Australia, Germany, Japan, the UK, and the US - focusing on portfolio diversification. Using a comprehensive analytical approach from 2012 to 2022, encompassing events like the Belt and Road Initiative, the Shanghai market crash, US -China trade tensions, and the COVID-19 pandemic, the research employs descriptive statistics, unit root tests, cointegration analysis, and VECM-based Granger Causality Tests. Findings indicate modest integration, endorsing diversified portfolios for developed country investors due to higher returns in China with acceptable risk. Unit root analysis confirms cointegration with developed indices, indicating relatively low integration. Granger Causality Tests reveal bidirectional causality, emphasizing mutual influence. Notably, no causal link exists between the US and China, possibly due to regulatory disparities and the trade war. The study enhances understanding of Chinese stock market dynamics, supporting global economic intertwining and urging further openness of China ' s domestic shares for economic growth.. Cointegration; Portfolio diversification; Major trading partners; Stock market integration; VECM-based granger causality test; Short-run granger causality. FINANCIAL INTEGRATION; VOLATILITY SPILLOVERS; US; BENEFITS; RISK; CONTAGION; CAUSALITY; LINKAGES; CRISIS; TRADE
Risk contagion of global stock markets under COVID-19:A network connectedness method. COVID-19 spread throughout the world during 2020, bringing an increase in global financial risk. We use connectedness network to investigate the risk contagion among global stock markets during the COVID-19 pandemic and analyse its source. Furthermore, we use spectrum analysis to explore the risk contagion effects on different frequency bands, which allows us to explore its speed and channels. We find that the United Kingdom and Italy are core transmitters of risks, and connectedness is mainly driven by low-frequency components, which demonstrates that the risks are spread by affecting supply chains in global markets and investors' long-term expectations for the economy.. COVID-19; Risk contagion; Connectedness network; Spectral analysis; COVID-19; Risk contagion; Connectedness network; Spectral analysis. VOLATILITY SPILLOVERS; FREQUENCY DYNAMICS
Identifying a stock price bubble and its macroeconomic implications. We construct a present-value model with a rational bubble identified using stock market data and survey expectations. The model captures the 1970s nifty-fifty bubble, the dot-com bubble, the bubble prior to the 2007-2009 recession, a COVID-19 bubble, and a recent bubble possibly linked to artificial intelligence. When bubble-adjusting the price-dividend ratio, we no longer find explosive dynamics and excess volatility in stock prices. To examine the macroeconomic implications of a bubble, we use the bubble innovation as an instrument in a structural vector autoregression. The results show that a positive bubble shock is expansionary and leads to a higher monetary policy rate.. bubble test; excess stock market volatility; local explosiveness; rational bubble; structural vector autoregression. EXPECTATIONS; INFORMATION; EXUBERANCE; VARIANCE; NEWS
COVID-19 vaccinations and risk spillovers: Evidence from Asia-Pacific stock markets. This study investigates the impact of COVID-19 vaccinations on volatility (risk) spillovers among major Asia-Pacific stock markets. Utilizing both mean-based and quantile-based connectedness approaches, we examine the evolving patterns and network structure of risk spillovers not only on average but also in the extreme left and right tails. Risk spillovers are typically stronger under extreme shocks. A common regularity observed in the dynamics of standard (average) and extreme risk spillovers is that there are fewer risk spillovers after the launch of the COVID-19 vaccines. We also conduct a series of regression analyses to investigate the association between spillover levels and vaccination rates. The regression results support that an increase in vacci-nations is associated with an decrease in standard risk spillovers. Besides, it is observed that vaccinations have an asymmetric impact on the extreme downside-tail and upside-tail risk spillovers. Further, panic sentiment is identified as a potential channel through which vaccina-tions affect spillovers. Our findings point to the role of COVID-19 vaccinations in stabilizing the Asia-Pacific stock markets by reducing risk spillovers.. COVID-19 vaccinations; Asia-Pacific stock markets; Volatility spillovers; Extreme risk spillovers; Complex network; Panic sentiment. IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; VOLATILITY SPILLOVERS; NETWORK; CONNECTEDNESS; RETURN; US
Dynamic Return and Volatility Forecasts for Selected Economies: An Analysis of the Covid-19 Pandemic and the Russo-Ukraine Saga. The goal of this paper is to forecast the return and volatility of specific emerging-market stock market returns. We gather adjusted daily closing prices covering the COVID-19 pandemic and RUSSO-Ukraine evasion, from December 31, 2019, to December 31, 2023. Standardised generalised autoregressive conditional heteroscedasticity (GARCH) models and autoregressive integrated moving averages (ARIMA) are used for empirical results. In terms of ARIMA, it shows that only 5 of the 11 countries have predictable stock returns when different autoregressive and moving average orders are followed. With reference to GARCH, it is discovered that every stock market records new information and experiences persistent volatility. It also shows that, in comparison, the volatility of the Chinese stock market is declining quickly. In order to help investors, portfolio managers, and stock market analysts make investment decisions based on expected return and risk, this paper provides insights.. dynamic return; volatility forecast; COVID-19 pandemic; RUSSO-Ukraine saga; GARCH; ARIMA
Chinese stock market volatility and herding behavior asymmetry during the COVID-19 pandemic. The primary purpose of this paper is to explore the herding behavior in the Chinese stock market during COVID-19 and the asymmetry of that behavior using the daily returns of A- and B-shares from 2 January 2019, to 15 October 2021. The study uses the cross-sectional absolute deviation model to analyze stock market herding behavior by non-linear polynomial regression. We show that the herding behavior in the Chinese stock market is more prominent during the COVID-19 pandemic. Herding behavior has a negative effect on stock market volatility. Moreover, such a suppressing effect weakened during the COVID-19 pandemic. There is an asymmetry in herding behavior during the bull and bear markets, which is helpful in our investigation of the market's volatility during the COVID-19 pandemic. The pronounced asymmetry in the herding behavior of the Chinese stock market during COVID-19 is assessed using the E-GARCH (p, q) model. The empirical results of the present study contribute to the literature about herding asymmetry by showing the herding behavior during the health crisis and bull and bear markets. It also helps reconcile the debate about the impact of herding on market stability and provides insightful guidance for investors wishing to invest in the Chinese stock market.. herding behavior; Chinese stock market; CSAD model; E-GARCH model. IMPACT
Sudden shock and stock market network structure characteristics: A comparison of past crisis events. Studying the correlation structure of the stock market is crucial for systemic risk and portfolio optimization. We construct the price volatility network of the Shanghai and Shenzhen 300 index components in China's stock market in the period 2007-2020. We select three representative major emergencies: the global financial crisis in 2008, the stock disaster in 2015, and the COVID-19 epidemic in 2020. First, we find that when the stock market is impacted by the major events, the network shows a cluster phenomenon. The cluster effect of the financial crisis events is smallest, while that of the epidemic events occurs most rapidly. Second, the key nodes in the stock market network have greater risk transmission ability. The manufacturing plays a crucial role during the later stages of events, while the financial industry plays an important role during the epidemic's recovery period. Third, the network structure of the stock market has an indicator effect on the systemic risk contributions. Generally, the greater a stock's eigenvector centrality, the greater its systemic risk contribution, while its closeness centrality and clustering coefficient have opposite effects. The study has important enlightenment significance for market regulators to prevent risk diffusion and reduce portfolio risk for market participants.. Sudden shock; Stock market network; Topology structure; Systemic risk contribution. GLOBAL FINANCIAL CRISIS; SYSTEMIC RISK; CONNECTEDNESS; INSTITUTIONS; VOLATILITY; SPILLOVER; CONTAGION; COVID-19; INFORMATION; STABILITY
Dynamic Dependency between the Shariah and Traditional Stock Markets: Diversification Opportunities during the COVID-19 and Global Financial Crisis (GFC) Periods. The aim of the present research is to highlight whether there exist any diversification opportunities from investing in developed and developing countries' Shariah-compliant and non-Shariah-compliant stock markets during global financial crisis (GFC) and the COVID-19 pandemic periods. For this purpose, we employ daily data for both Shariah and non-Shariah indices from 29 October 2007 to 31 December 2021. The study uses multivariate GARCH-DCC and wavelet approaches to examine if there exist diversification opportunities in the selected markets. Evidence from this study shows that although the developing markets' stock returns experience high volatility of a similar degree, the conventional indices of Malaysia have the highest volatility among them. This shows that Shariah indices have less exposure to risk and higher possibilities of diversification compared to their conventional counterparts. Regarding developed markets, the Japanese conventional index and the U.S. Shariah indices are more volatile compared to other indices in the market. Moreover, the results of the wavelet power spectrum show significant and higher volatility during the COVID-19 pandemic rather than the GFC. Similarly, the Chinese conventional market experienced minimum variance during the GFC and COVID-19 pandemic period. On the other hand, the results of wavelet-coherence transform indicate that the Japanese Shariah-based market offered better portfolio opportunities for U.S. traders during the GFC and the COVID-19 pandemic periods. Hence, opportunities for investment in this selected market are basically close to zero. Therefore, investors should carefully choose which stocks they can include in their investment portfolio.. dynamic dependency; Shariah and traditional stock markets; diversification opportunity; COVID-19; GFC. CO-MOVEMENTS; PORTFOLIO DIVERSIFICATION; VOLATILITY SPILLOVER; RISK; INDEXES; INVESTMENT; DCC; HETEROGENEITY; PERFORMANCE; BENEFITS
FINANCIAL MARKET INTERCONNECTIONS ANALYZED USING GARCH UNIVARIATE AND MULTIVARIATE MODELS. Given that the financial markets are facing the effects of the coronavirus pandemic, we chose to perform an analysis on them, in order to see the transmission of volatility, the effects of the contagion and the interconnection between the financial markets. Using stock indices from different countries and applying theoretical and empirical methods such as univariate and multivariate models (ARCH - GARCH, BEKK), we aim to capture volatility and bidirectional contagion, as well as testing and occurring the phenomenon of clustering volatility and its transmission effect.. Volatility; Contagion; Clustering; ARCH-GARCH models; GARCH-BEKK models. HETEROSCEDASTICITY
Stock market integration and volatility spillovers: new evidence from Asia-Pacific and European markets. PurposeThis work investigates the volatility spillovers across stock markets and the nature of such spillovers through different periods of crises and tranquility.Design/methodology/approachUsing daily stock return volatility data from June 2003 to June 2021, the generalized forecast error variance decomposition method (based on Diebold and Yilmaz, 2012 approach) is employed to measure the degree of volatility spillovers/connectedness among stock markets of 24 Asia-Pacific and 12 European Union (EU) economies.FindingsThe empirical results from static analysis suggested that about 28.1% (63.7%) of forecast error variance in return volatility for Asia-Pacific (EU) markets is due to spillovers. The evidence from dynamic analysis suggested that during mid of the global financial crisis, European debt crisis (EDC) and Covid-19, the gross volatility spillovers for Asia-Pacific (EU) was around 67% (80%), 65% (80%) and 73% (67%), respectively. The degree of net volatility transmission from Singapore (Denmark) to other Asia-Pacific (EU) markets was found to be highest.Practical implicationsThe findings have crucial implications for the investors and portfolio managers in assessment of risk and optimum allocation of assets and investment decisions.Originality/valueThis study adds to the literature on risk management by systematically examining the impact of global financial crises, EDC and Covid-19 on the market interactions by capturing the magnitude, duration and pattern of the shock-specific market volatilities for a large sample of Asian and European markets using recent and large data set.. Stock market integration; Volatility spillovers; Diebold-Yilmaz; Forecast error variance decomposition; Asia and European markets; G01; G11; G14; G15. AUTOREGRESSIVE TIME-SERIES; IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; INTERNATIONAL TRANSMISSION; FINANCIAL CRISIS; LINKAGES; CONTAGION; RETURN; DIVERSIFICATION; INTERDEPENDENCE; CONNECTEDNESS
Study on the Pakistan stock market using a new stock crisis prediction method. A Stock market collapse occurs when stock prices drop by more than 10% across all main indexes. Predicting a stock market crisis is difficult because of the increased volatility in the stock market. Stock price drops can be triggered by a variety of factors, including corporate results, geopolitical tensions, financial crises, and pandemic events. For scholars and investors, predicting a crisis is a difficult endeavor. We developed a model for the prediction of stock crisis using Hybridized Feature Selection (HFS) approach. Firstly, we went for the suggestion of the HFS method for the removal of stock's unnecessary financial attributes. The Naive Bayes approach, on the other hand, is used for the classification of strong fundamental stocks. In the third step, Stochastic Relative Strength Index (StochRSI) is employed to identify a stock price bubble. In the fourth step, we identified the stock market crisis point in stock prices through moving average statistics. The fifth is the prediction of stock crises by using deep learning algorithms such as Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU) and Long-Short Term Memory (LSTM). Root Mean Square Error (RMSE), Mean Squared Error (MSE) and Mean Absolute Error (MAE) are implemented for assessing the performance of the models. The HFS-based GRU technique outperformed the HFS-based LSTM method to anticipate the stock crisis. To complete the task, the experiments used Pakistan datasets. The researchers can look at additional technical factors to forecast when a crisis would occur in the future. With a new optimizer, the GRU approach may be improved and fine-tuned even more.. SUPPORT VECTOR REGRESSION; NEURAL-NETWORKS; PRICE INDEX
A Comparative Analysis of the Nature of Stock Return Volatility in BRICS and G7 Markets. Through globalization and financial market liberalization, the opening up of markets has increased cross-border investments as investors search for higher risk-adjusted returns. This ability to invest internationally has raised the attention given to emerging markets that offer higher risk-adjusted returns relative to developed markets. However, despite the growing importance of emerging markets, the literature on the nature of volatility in global markets is typified by generalizations of findings from developed markets. To fill this gap, this study comparatively examined the nature of stock return volatility in developed G7 and emerging BRICS markets. Broad market index data and GARCH models over the period 2003:01-2020:08 were employed. The study found evidence of volatility persistence, asymmetry, mean reversion and weak evidence of a risk premium in both emerging and developed markets. There was also evidence of significant differences in the nature of volatility within the two sets of markets. These volatility patterns in both groups cast doubt on the assertion that developed markets are more informationally efficient than emerging markets. Thus, markets in the same group may not always have the same nature of volatility, especially in the wake of structural events such as the COVID-19 global pandemic.. volatility; persistence; asymmetry; mean reversion; risk-return; BRICS; G7; COVID-19. REFERENCE-DEPENDENT PREFERENCES; TRADE-OFF; CONDITIONAL HETEROSKEDASTICITY; TIME-SERIES; UNIT-ROOT; LONG-RUN; RISK; INFORMATION; PERSISTENCE; BEHAVIOR
The historical transition of return transmission, volatility spillovers, and dynamic conditional correlations: A fresh perspective and new evidence from the US, UK, and Japanese stock markets. This paper quantitatively investigated the historical transition of return transmission, volatility spillovers, and correlations between the US, UK, and Japanese stock markets. Applying a vector autoregressive (VAR) -dynamic conditional correlation (DCC)-multivariate exponential generalized autoregressive conditional heteroscedasticity (MEGARCH) model, we derived new evidence for four historical periods between 1984 and 2024. First, we found that the return transmission from the US to the other markets has historically become stronger, whereas recently, the return transmission from the UK to the US has disappeared. Second, we clarified that volatility spillovers from the US to the other markets have historically become stronger, whereas recently, volatility spillovers from the UK to the US have also disappeared. Third, our analyses of the historical constant correlations and DCCs revealed that stock market connectedness has gradually tightened between the US and Japan and between the UK and Japan, whereas recently, the connectedness between the US and UK has weakened. Fourth, our VAR-DCC analyses also revealed that volatility spillovers between the US, UK, and Japanese stock markets have been asymmetric. Fifth, we further showed that the skew - t errors incorporated into our VAR-DCC model are effective in estimating the dynamic stock return linkages between the US, the UK, and Japan. Finally, based on our findings, we derived many significant and beneficial interpretations and implications for historically and deeply considering return transmission, volatility spillovers, and DCCs between international stock markets.. Brexit; COVID-19; DCC; European debt crisis; historical transition; MEGARCH; return transmission; VAR; volatility spillover. INTEGRATION; CONNECTEDNESS; PRICES; ENERGY; EUROPE
Using a Mean-Changing Stochastic Processes Exit-Entry Model for Stock Market Long-Short Prediction. This article has a unique application to the study of mean-changing models in stock markets. The idea is to enter and exit stock markets like Apple Computer stock (AAPL) and the broad S&P 500 Index (S&P 500) at good times and prices (long and short). Mean estimation is far more important to portfolio success than the estimation of variance or covariance. The idea in the stochastic-process model is to determine when the mean changes and then reverse the position direction. This was applied to AAPL in 2012 when its stock price rallied dramatically and then had a large fall, and to AAPL and the S&P 500 in the extremely difficult and volatile January to June 2020 period of COVID-19 and through 2021.. ASSET PRICE BUBBLES; CRASHES; EARTHQUAKES
COVID-19 and overconfidence bias: the case of developed, emerging and frontier markets. Purpose The main purpose of the present study is to delve into the overconfidence bias in global stock markets during both pre COVID-19 and COVID-19 phases. Design/methodology/approach The present study makes use of daily adjusted closing prices and volume of the broad market indices of 46 global stock markets over a period ranging from July 2015 till June 2020. The sample period is split into pre COVID-19 and COVID-19 phases. In order to test the overconfidence fallacy in the chosen stock markets, bivariate market-wide vector auto regression (VAR) models and impulse response functions (IRFs) have been employed in both phases. Findings A highly significant contemporaneous relationship between market return and volume appears to be more pronounced in the Japanese, US, Chinese and Vietnamese stock markets in the pre COVID-19 era for the relevant coefficients are positive and highly significant for most lags. Coming to the period of turbulence, the present study discovers strong overconfident behavior in the Chinese, Taiwanese, Turkish, Jordanian and Vietnamese stock markets during COVID-19 phase. Practical implications A stark finding is that none of the developed stock markets reveal strong overconfidence bias during pandemic, suggesting a loss or decline in the investors' confidence. Therefore, the regulators should try to regain the investors' trust and confidence in the markets by ensuring honest, fair and transparent practices. The money managers should reduce the transaction cost to encourage trading and educate investors to hold a well-diversified portfolio to mitigate risk in the long run. The governments may launch recovery packages focusing on sustaining and improving economic activities. Finally, a better investment culture may be built by the corporate houses through good corporate governance practices to regain lost trust. Originality/value The present study appears to be the very first attempt to gauge overconfidence bias in the wake of a recent COVID-19 pandemic.. Overconfidence; COVID-19; Vector auto regression; Impulse response function. STOCK-MARKET; FINANCIAL LITERACY; VOLATILITY; UNCERTAINTY; INVESTORS; BEHAVIOR; VOLUME; LIQUIDITY; DYNAMICS; PRICE
Unleashing the pandemic volatility: A glimpse into the stock market performance of developed economies during COVID-19. The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in significant financial losses globally, increasing the volatility of financial assets. Thus, this study models the stock market volatility of developed economies during the COVID-19 pandemic. For this purpose, we used the GJR-GARCH (Albulescu, 2020; Albulescu, 2020) [1,1] econometric model on the daily time series returns data ranging from 01st-July-2019 to 18th-November-2020. The entire dataset was equally divided into two subsets; before COVID-19, and after the COVID-19. The empirical results of this study showed the presence of volatility clustering, leverage effect, and excess kurtosis indicating leptokurtic phenomena in all stock indices returns. In addition to this, it can be noted that compared to before COVID-19, the stock markets showed negative returns, and increased volatility during the COVID19. Hence, based on these findings, this study provides significant insights for global stock market investors and economic policymakers regarding financial portfolio construction particularly during crises times.. COVID-19; Volatility; Developed markets; Stock indices; GJR-GARCH model. RISK; SKEWNESS; RETURN
To keep faith with homoskedasticity or to go back to heteroskedasticity? The case of FATANG stocks. Did the pattern of US stock market volatility change due to COVID-19 or have the US stock markets been less volatile despite the pandemic shock? And as for tech stocks, are they even less volatile than the market overall? In this paper, we provide evidence in favor of a quietness in the stock markets, interrupted by COVID-19, by analyzing dispersion, skewness and kurtosis characteristics of the empirical distribution of nine returns series that include individual FATANG stocks (FAANG: Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix and Google; plus Tesla) and US indices (S&P 500, DJIA and NASDAQ). In comparison with the years before, the daily average return after COVID-19 was 6.48, 2.58 and 2.34 times higher for Tesla, Apple and NASDAQ, respectively. In terms of volatility, the increase was more pronounced in the three stock indices when compared to the individual FATANG stocks. This paper also puts forward a new methodology based on semi-variance and semi-kurtosis. While the value of the ratio between semi-kurtosis and kurtosis is always higher than 70% for the three US stock indices, in the case of stocks the opposite is true, which highlights the importance of large positive returns when compared to negative ones. Structural breaks and conditional heteroskedasticity are also analyzed by considering the traditional symmetrical and asymmetrical GARCH models. We show that in the most recent past, despite the COVID-19 pandemic, the FATANG tech stocks are characterized mostly by conditional homoskedasticity, while the returns of US stock indices are characterized mainly by conditional heteroskedasticity.. US stock markets; Volatility; Persistence; Half-life; Semi-kurtosis. STRUCTURAL BREAKS; ASSET RETURNS; GARCH MODELS; TIME-SERIES; VOLATILITY; MARKETS; PERSISTENCE; DEPENDENCE; VARIANCE
Resilience of Islamic and conventional equity markets in turbulent times. PurposeThe purpose of this study is to examine the resilience of Islamic equities during crisis periods and in times of financial distress and how the industry composition and other characteristics of Islamic financial markets contribute to this resilience.Design/methodology/approachThis study uses panel regressions, pooled regressions and EGARCH models to analyse the impact of various crisis periods and financial distress on the returns and the volatility of Islamic and conventional equities. The main sample covers 48 Islamic and conventional equity indices from 1996 to 2023.FindingsIslamic equity indices are more stable than conventional equity indices during various financial crises and the COVID-19 pandemic. These findings also hold for continuous measures of financial distress and a global crisis index. Industry composition contributes substantially to the relative resilience of Islamic equities. Many performance differences reduce or disappear once controlling for industry. There are additional protective factors of Islamic equities including lower leverage and the exclusion of volatile assets.Practical implicationsThe findings provide valuable insights for index construction, risk management and diversification strategies in times of financial instability. Diversification across Shari'ah-compliant firms and industries is beneficial.Originality/valueThis study provides a comprehensive analysis of resilience among Islamic equities in turbulent times, covering multiple binary and continuous measures of financial crises and financial distress. Importantly, it considers the role of industry composition and other factors in contributing to their resilience. These results have implications for index construction and for risk management and diversification strategies in turbulent times.. Financial crisis; Financial distress; Islamic finance; Resilience; Industry composition. FINANCIAL CRISES; PERFORMANCE; INDEXES; CONTAGION; RISK; TRANSMISSION
The nexus of conventional, religious and ethical indexes during crisis. This study examines the interconnectedness between conventional and ethical indexes. Using a Bayesian graphical vector autoregressive model, we derive the contemporaneous and temporal interdependencies among these stock index returns before and during the Covid-19 pandemic. Our model specification strategy combines vector autoregressive models with networks. The findings provide empirical evidence of increased interconnectedness during the Covid-19 period across all networks. Notably, the religious and FTSE Islamic networks exhibited greater resilience during the pandemic. This could be attributed to the rigorous screening processes for religious portfolios, which focus on lower-leveraged equity stocks, contributing to their stability. Additionally, our results show that the Covid-19 crisis affected network density and the roles of key player shock transmitter entities, as indicated by changes in hub and authority scores, with new key players emerging during the crisis.. Covid-19; Conventional; Ethical; Islamic; Stock index; Networks; VAR. CORPORATE SOCIAL-RESPONSIBILITY; VOLATILITY SPILLOVER; PERFORMANCE; SIN; CONNECTEDNESS; MARKETS; RISK; TRANSMISSION; FINANCE; IMPACT
Impact of unconventional monetary policy on stock market in selected economies during and post-COVID-19 pandemic. This study investigates the impact and effectiveness of unconventional monetary policy (UMP) interventions, specifically central bank policy announcements and asset purchases programs, across four major advanced economies, namely the United States (US), European Union (EU), United Kingdom (UK), and Japan during and post-COVID-19 pandemic. By utilizing the EGARCH (1,1)-X-MIDAS framework, the model captures both short-run and long-run components of stock market volatility by incorporating mixed-frequency exogenous variables of policy announcement and asset purchases. Covering the period from March 2020 to December 2023, the findings reveal that policy announcements had transient or insignificant effects on volatility, especially as market participants adjusted to well-communicated policy regimes. In contrast, the impact of asset purchases varied by economy and period: the US experienced volatility-dampening effects, while the EU, UK, and Japan exhibited volatility amplification in response to sustained interventions. These effects were found to be state-dependent and time-varying, reflecting differences in institutional credibility, market expectations, and macro-financial conditions. Robustness checks using a GJR-GARCH(1,1)-X-MIDAS model confirm the consistency of results under asymmetric volatility dynamics. Overall, the study provides new empirical evidence on the conditional effectiveness of UMP, highlighting its transmission through the volatility channel rather than mean returns.. Unconventional monetary policy; Policy announcements; Asset purchases; Stock market volatility; Central banks; COVID-19 pandemic. LIQUIDITY; VOLATILITY; VARIANCE; RETURNS; PRICE; RISK
Volatility Spillovers Between the U.S. and Romanian Markets: The BET-SFT-500 Dynamic Under Political Uncertainty. This paper analyzes the volatility relationship between the Romanian BET index and the U.S. SFT-500 index during the period 2019-2024, with a particular focus on the impact of political and geopolitical shocks. The study investigates whether financial markets in emerging economies react symmetrically or asymmetrically to external shocks originating from mature markets, especially during periods of political uncertainty. The research period includes four major systemic events: the COVID-19 pandemic, the military conflict in Ukraine, the 2024 U.S. presidential elections, and the 2024 Romanian elections, all of which generated significant volatility in global markets. The methodological approach combines time series econometrics with the Impulse Indicator Saturation (IIS) technique to identify structural breaks and outliers, without imposing exogenous assumptions about the timing of events. The econometric model includes autoregressive and lagged exogenous variables to estimate the influence of the SFT-500 index on the BET index, while IIS variables capture unanticipated political and economic shocks. Additionally, a Fractionally Integrated GARCH (FIGARCH) specification is applied to model the persistence of volatility over time, capturing the long-memory behavior often observed in emerging markets like Romania. The results confirm a statistically significant but partial synchronization between the two markets, with lagged and contemporaneous effects from the SFT-500 index on the BET index. Volatility in Romania is markedly higher and longer-lasting during domestic political episodes, confirming that local factors are a primary source of market instability. For investors, this underscores the need to embed political risk metrics into emerging market portfolios. For policymakers, it highlights how stronger institutions and transparent governance can dampen election- and crisis-related turbulence.. financial volatility; political uncertainty; BET; SFT-500; exogenous impulses; emerging markets; econometric modeling; IIS (Impulse Indicator Saturation). STOCK-MARKET; MODEL SELECTION; IMPACT
Fractality of Borsa Istanbul during the COVID-19 Pandemic. Forecasting price changes is very important for the process of estimating and managing market risk in financial markets. Price changes in financial markets may also depend on non-market factors. Considering this situation, the study investigates the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on Borsa Istanbul. It tackles changes in the fractal dimensions of the time series obtained with the daily closing prices of stocks traded on Borsa Istanbul (BIST). According to the results of the sector-based analysis, we found that fractal dimension changes were quite effective in price estimation.. fractal dimension; time series analysis; financial markets. STOCHASTIC VOLATILITY; TIME-SERIES; DIMENSION; TURBULENCE; DYNAMICS; PERFORMANCE; ESTIMATORS; EFFICIENCY; ENTROPY; MARKETS
Characteristics and dynamic evolution of inter-industry volatility spillovers in China's stock market. This study examines the volatility connectedness across 28 sectors in the Chinese stock market, aiming to discern the risk spillovers and their implications for financial security and economic stability. Employing a network connectedness approach, we analyze the volatility connectedness's characteristics and dynamic evolution among various sectors. The findings indicate that manufacturing industries exhibit a high degree of correlation among themselves and predominantly function as exporters of risk spillovers. Conversely, the financial industry emerges as a primary recipient, characterized by a relatively low correlation to other sectors. During the COVID-19 epidemic, risk correlation within China's stock market sectors experienced an increase, which, however, did not persist as the epidemic progressed. Furthermore, the conflict between Russia and Ukraine exerted a limited contagion effect on China's stock market risks. These insights offer valuable guidance for China in managing economic and financial risks more effectively.. IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; RISK; CONNECTEDNESS
Neural networks for estimating Macro Asset Pricing model in football clubs. The recent crisis caused by COVID-19 directly affected consumption habits and the stability sof financial markets. In particular, the football industry has been hit hard by this pandemic and therefore has more volatile stock prices. Given this new scenario, further research is needed to accurately estimate the value of the shares of football clubs. In this paper, we estimate an asset pricing model in football clubs with different compositions of risk nature using non-linear techniques of artificial neural networks. Usually, asset pricing models have been estimated with linear methods such as ordinary least squares. Our results show a precision higher than 90% for all the estimated models, which far exceeds those shown by linear methods in the previous literature. We find that the residual represents about 40% of the variance of the price-dividend ratio. Long-term risks follow in importance, and above all, the habit component and its behaviour in the face of changes. The importance of the residual component exists due to a low correlation between the asset price and consumer behaviour, but to a much lesser extent than that shown in previous studies. The estimation carried out with artificial neural networks, both the Deep Learning methods and especially the Quantum Neural Network, opens up new possibilities to estimate more efficiently the pricing of financial assets in the football industry.. Deep Learning; football clubs; long-term risks; Macro Asset Pricing; neural networks; non-linear methods; Quantum Neural Networks. LONG-RUN RISKS; STOCK-MARKET; PROFESSIONAL FOOTBALL; PRICES; PERFORMANCE; RETURNS; HABIT; VOLATILITY; SENTIMENT; EXCHANGE
Does the COVID-19 pandemic strengthen the volatility spillovers across global stock markets?. This paper investigates the volatility spillover and connectedness among the stock markets of G7, BRICS countries, and other countries where COVID-19 is more severe. For this investigation, we perform static and rolling-window analysis to measure volatility spillovers using the spillover index approach and LASSO-VAR for estimating high-dimensional VARs. We also examine the network connectedness at different periods. Our findings indicate that the recent COVID-19 pandemic intensifies volatility spillovers, supporting the financial contagion effects. Furthermore, the United States, Spain, and Russia markets are net volatility transmitters for most of the period before and during the COVID-19 pandemic.. Stock indices; COVID-19; network; volatility spillovers. CONNECTEDNESS; TRANSMISSION; VARIANCE; DYNAMICS; EQUITY; BOND
How resilient are the Asia Pacific financial markets against a global pandemic?. This paper examines (i) the effects of the COVID-19 outbreak and subsequent government policy responses, and (ii) their firm-level determinants in the context of Asia Pacific financial markets. The study is built on 3278 companies from 7 countries. It is found that the declaration of the COVID-19 outbreak as a pandemic resulted in a significant negative impact on the stock returns (the cumulative average abnormal returns range from 7.35% to 26.21% for a [ 5, 5] window period) with few exceptions. The results further indicate that although government stimulus packages somewhat calmed the markets, these policy responses, in general, failed to rebuild investors' confidence. The cross-sectional regression reveals that low leverage, low volatility, cash-rich, growth and good corporate governance firms were less vulnerable to the pandemic. However, firms' stock price responses to the crisis were invariant to their CSR engagement, features of the corporate board, and executive compensation structure.. Coronavirus; COVID-19; Asia Pacific financial markets; Abnormal returns. CORPORATE; PERFORMANCE; SPILLOVERS; IMPACT; LAW
Novel Stock Crisis Prediction Technique-A Study on Indian Stock Market. A stock market crash is a drop in stock prices more than 10% across the major indices. Stock crisis prediction is a difficult task due to more volatility in the stock market. Stock price sell-offs are due to various reasons such as company earnings, geopolitical tension, financial crisis, and pandemic situations. Crisis prediction is a challenging task for researchers and investors. We proposed a stock crisis prediction model based on the Hybrid Feature Selection (HFS) technique. First, we proposed the HFS algorithm to removes the irrelevant financial parameters features of stock. The second is the Naive Bayes method is considered to classify the strong fundamental stock. The third is we have used the Relative Strength Index (RSI) method to find a bubble in stock price. The fourth is we have used moving average statistics to identify the crisis point in stock prices. The fifth is stock crisis prediction based on Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost) and Deep Neural Network (DNN) regression method. The performance of the model is evaluated based on Mean Squared Error (MSE), Mean Absolute Error (MAE), and Root Mean Square Error(RMSE). HFS based XGBoost method was performed better than HFS based DNN method for predicting the stock crisis. The experiments considered the Indian datasets to carry out the task. In the future, the researchers can explore other technical indicators to predict the crisis point. There is more scope to improve and fine-tune the XGBoost method with a different optimizer.. Predictive models; Support vector machines; Neural networks; Hafnium; Stock markets; Forecasting; Companies; Recursive feature elimination; Boruta feature selection; stock price bubble; XGBoost; DNN; stock crisis. SUPPORT VECTOR REGRESSION; PRICE INDEX; MODELS; DEEP
Volatility spillovers among major tourism stock indices during Covid-19 pandemic. This paper examines the dynamics of volatility spillovers among five major tourism stock indices during the Covid-19 period. Our paper enriches the current literature as it is the first paper to investigate the volatility spillovers among major global tourism stock indices by adopting Diebold and Yilmaz (2012. Better to give than to receive: Predictive directional measurement of volatility spillovers. International Journal of Forecasting, 28(1), 57-66. ), and Barunik and Krehlik (2018. Measuring the Frequency Dynamics of Financial Connectedness and Systemic Risk. Journal of Financial Econometrics, 16(2), 271-296.) time and frequency domain methods. Results suggest that total spillovers of the tourism stock indices rose significantly during the pandemic. Turkey and Italy are net volatility spillover transmitters, and others are net volatility spillover receivers. Findings of this study also indicates that the effect of volatility transmission among tourism stock markets is temporary (short-lasting). The results suggest that short-term investors and portfolio managers should avoid investing in the tourism indices in the short term.. Volatility spillovers; stock market; Covid-19. IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; CONNECTEDNESS
The effect of rare events on information-leading role: evidence from real estate investment trusts and overall stock markets. The information relationship between real estate investment trusts and stock markets has garnered significant interest in finance; however, the time-varying information flow between the two can vary due to different market conditions. This study scrutinizes the information-leading roles between the real estate investment trust sector and overall stock markets under various market conditions. Shannonian transfer entropy, used for identifying information-leading roles, can reveal nonlinear interactions between two markets; however, the results can be hindered by rare events, such as sporadically occurring episodes. Therefore, this study introduces R & eacute;nyian transfer entropy to examine the role of rare events in the information flow between the two markets. This conjecture is confirmed using the COVID-19 pandemic as a natural experiment setting of rare events. The results reveal notable findings. (i) R & eacute;nyian transfer entropy can accurately capture the impact of rare events regardless of the sample period, including the changes in information-leading roles when volatility clustering strengthens. Furthermore, (ii) the significance of liquidity and market efficiency produces different information flows depending on market status. The findings suggest that investors can use R & eacute;nyian transfer entropy to accurately identify information-leading roles between assets under various market conditions, facilitating optimal portfolio allocation. Moreover, policymakers can benchmark this approach to identify financial risk contagion paths, enabling regulators to implement timely policy actions to mitigate market risks.. GRANGER CAUSALITY; CAPITAL-MARKETS; RANDOM-WALKS; REITS; EFFICIENCY; LIQUIDITY; FLOW; COEFFICIENT; SPILLOVERS; RETURNS
Application of Supervised Machine Learning Techniques to Forecast the COVID-19 US Recession and Stock Market Crash. Machine learning (ML), a transformational technology, has been successfully applied to forecasting events down the road. This paper demonstrates that supervised ML techniques can be used in recession and stock market crash (more than 20% drawdown) forecasting. After learning from strictly past monthly data, ML algorithms detected the Covid-19 recession by December 2019, six months before the official NBER announcement. Moreover, ML algorithms foresaw the March 2020 S&P500 crash two months before it happened. The current labor market and housing are harbingers of a future U.S. recession (in 3 months). Financial factors have a bigger role to play in stock market crashes than economic factors. The labor market appears as a top-two feature in predicting both recessions and crashes. ML algorithms detect that the U.S. exited recession before December 2020, even though the official NBER announcement has not yet been made. They also do not anticipate a U.S. stock market crash before March 2021. ML methods have three times higher false discovery rates of recessions compared to crashes.. Machine learning; Forecasting; Financial econometrics; Recession; Stock market crash. FINANCIAL STATEMENT FRAUD; LEADING INDICATORS; VOLATILITY
Robust investment portfolio management for dynamic financial markets using Bayesian neural networks. Portfolio management plays a vital role in financial investment decisions. However, uncertainties in asset returns and estimation models pose challenges to efficient portfolio selection in dynamic financial markets. In response, we propose a robust reward-risk-adjusted portfolio management model based on a Bayesian machine learning inference framework to flexibly achieve optimal portfolio strategy. Specifically, we employ the Stochastic Gradient Variational Bayesian (SGVB) method to address the uncertainties in the asset return probability distribution parameters and the portfolio model structure. Moreover, SGVB is integrated with neural networks to form a probabilistic deep learning framework, where model latent variables are modeled as probability distributions and efficient portfolio model training is achieved through stochastic gradient optimization. We utilize the financial market data from US DJIA stocks to analyze the superiority and robustness of our proposed portfolio approach. Empirical analysis indicates that the proposed reward-risk-adjusted portfolio model achieves higher portfolio returns, Sharpe ratios, and Sortino ratios performance than other models under different market factors, including market turbulence periods like COVID-19. These findings assist investors and financial institutions in performing and analyzing optimal portfolio decision-making under volatile market environments.. Efficient portfolio management; Reward-risk-adjusted investment; Robust optimization; Bayesian neural networks. SELECTION; RISK; OPTIMIZATION; UNCERTAINTY; PARAMETER
Spillover nexus of financial stress during black Swan events. This research investigates the dynamic volatility spillover among the financial market stress of the US, Other Advanced Economies (OAE), and Emerging Markets (EM) during the two Black Swan events -the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and Global Financial Crisis (GFC). We conduct the spillover analyses on short, medium, and long runs. The findings suggest that during the GFC, the US financial market received the highest spillovers from OAE in the medium run. During the COVID-19 pandemic, financial stress in the US has induced maximum spillovers to the EM market in the long run.. Volatility spillover; Financial stress; Global financial crisis; COVID-19 Pandemic; Volatility spillover; Financial stress; Global financial crisis; COVID-19 Pandemic
FORECASTING STOCK MARKET DYNAMICS USING BIDIRECTIONAL LONG SHORT-TERM MEMORY. This study forecasts stock market dynamics using machine learning techniques. Specifically, we use long short-term memory (LSTM) and bidirectional LSTM (Bi-LSTM) networks to predict the spot index return and implied volatility series in the Korean market. The Bi-LSTM model exhibits better out-of-sample forecasting performance than the LSTM and classic autoregressive models do, reflecting the fact that the Bi-LSTM model learns data patterns more accurately through a bidirectional process. The Bi-LSTM model with the longest time lag (i.e., 22 days) exhibits the best performance in predicting returns and volatility over the entire sample period. In contrast, during the global financial crisis and COVID-19 pandemic periods, when the stock market dynamics are unstable, Bi-LSTM models with shorter time lags (i.e., five or ten days) predict volatility more accurately.. Bidirectional long short-term memory; Forecasting; Machine learning; Implied volatility; Stock return. VOLATILITY INFORMATION; IMPLIED VOLATILITIES; MACROECONOMIC SHOCKS; ASSET RETURNS; OPTION MARKET; INDEX; NETWORKS; BEHAVIOR; FRAMEWORK; LSTM
Similarity and Granger Causality in Polish and Spanish Stock Market Sectors During the COVID-19 Pandemic. Capital markets react almost immediately to crises. Such relationships can be both international and local. The research focuses on the stock markets of two countries: Spain and Poland. These countries are often compared in terms of various economic and social criteria. The research covers the period from March 3, 2019, to March 31, 2021. The aim is to identify sectors and indices similar to each other at the local level and to identify, among pairs of similar indices, those that provide a boost to another sector. The research uses the hierarchical cluster analysis method (Ward's method) and the Granger causality test. This work presents a novel approach to sectoral comparison at the local level.. coronavirus; economic sectors; financial volatility; similarity. AUTOREGRESSIVE TIME-SERIES; PRICE
Time-varying herding spillover for emerging countries: evidence from BRIC countries and Turkey. Purpose This study aims to investigate herding spillover in BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India and China) countries and Turkey under different regimes by using a time-varying approach. Design/methodology/approach The authors used the structural change model of Bai and Perron (1998). Findings The results indicate that there is an evidence of herding behaviour in the Chinese stock market in two different regimes. These regimes cover the recent global financial crisis and the period of Hong Kong protests. We also report the evidence of herding behaviour in the Turkish stock market in the regime covering the COVID-19 period. Findings of herding spillover show that there is a two-way herding among Russia and China during crises and high volatile regimes. Similarly, there exists a cross-country herding among Brazil and India during crisis regimes. Also, there is herding spillover from Turkey to Russia, China and Brazil during the global financial crisis, post-European debt crisis and COVID-19 periods respectively. Furthermore, it is also evident that there is a herding spillover from Russia and China to India during the period covering COVID-19. Originality/value To the best of the authors' knowledge, this is the first study that uses structural change approach to identify herding behaviour spillovers from the US stock market to BRIC countries and Turkey and to investigate the cross-country herding behaviour among BRIC countries and Turkey.. Behavioural finance; Herding behaviour; Cross-sectional dispersions; Structural breaks; C22; C58; G01; G15; G41. FINANCIAL CRISIS; STOCK; MARKETS; CONTAGION; BEHAVIOR; IMPACT
Sovereign contagion risk measure across financial markets in the eurozone: a bivariate copulas and Markov Regime Switching ARMA based approaches. This paper analyzes sovereign risk contagion across financial markets in the eurozone during and after the European debt crisis. A particular focus is made on the causal impact of pre-Brexit and Covid-19 pandemic on the dependence between European markets. We use data set from 28 February 2008 to 11 March 2021 and combine copulas and MRS-ARMA techniques to measure dependence across financial markets and assessing asymmetric dependence structure and regime switching process. We develop a dynamic Kendall's tau correlation and provide evidence of time-varying dependence structure between several pairwise markets. The dependence structure shows a sharp rise on 23 June 2016, day of the referendum on Brexit. Results indicates that Covid-19 pandemic has intensified dependence and sovereign risk spillovers between sovereign CDS European markets. Significant time-varying characteristics of dynamic dependence structures suggests that fund managers and investors should consider in their investment strategies to manage systemic risk and high-risk investment. The identification of dependence structure regime between global financial markets would enhance response to major crises by investors and policy makers.. Pre-brexit; Covid-19 pandemic; Sovereign risk contagion; Copula's approach; Markov switching regime; ARMA models. CONDITIONAL HETEROSKEDASTICITY; VOLATILITY; EQUITY; TRANSMISSION; SPILLOVERS; BANKING; INTERDEPENDENCE; VARIANCE; RETURNS; SPREADS
Fear sentiment spillovers and G7 market dynamics: evidence from a global crisis. PurposeThe paper aims to examine the return spillover effects between G7 stock markets, investors' FEAR and pandemic-related CORONA FEAR while analyzing their correlation, volatility influence and dynamic interconnections.Design/methodology/approachThe study uses daily data from January 2, 2019, to April 2021. Two novel sentiment indices (FEAR and CORONA FEAR) are constructed from Google Trends following Da et al. (2015). The analysis relies on the dynamic conditional correlation generalized autoregressive conditional heteroskedasticity model to capture dynamic correlations and the time-varying parameter vector autoregression (TVP-VAR) framework to assess time-varying connectedness across markets and fear indices.FindingsBoth FEAR and CORONA FEAR show long-run dynamic correlations with G7 stock markets. Uncertainty and pandemic fear gradually affect asset prices. TVP-VAR results reveal synchronization between fear sentiment and volatility across G7 markets. Both indices act as net volatility receivers, indicating stock markets are the main triggers of fear. Findings highlight the psychological impact of crises on investors and provide policy insights to reduce fear-driven reactions and enhance financial stability.Originality/valueThe paper introduces two new fear sentiment indices, FEAR and CORONA FEAR, derived from Google Trends data, and integrates them into financial spillover analysis, highlighting their role in shaping market volatility and investor behavior during crises.. Spillover; FEAR sentiment; Dynamic spillovers; TVP-VAR; C32; C5; F3; G15. IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; INVESTOR SENTIMENT; STOCK MARKETS; PROSPECT-THEORY; CONNECTEDNESS; INTERDEPENDENCE; CONTAGION; RETURNS; MODEL; INDEX
Market momentum amplifies market volatility risk: Evidence from China's equity market. We examine the role of a belief-based momentum indicator, measured by conditional past returns (CPR), in the realized volatility (RV) predictability of equity markets. Based on the week- and month-horizon CPR, we construct the HAR-CPR and HAR-LCPR models on the basis HAR-RV model. Here, the HAR-LCPR model additionally includes the daily leverage factor in the absence of daily CPR. In China, we find that: 1) week- and month-horizon CPR have significantly positive impacts on one-, five-, and 22-days-ahead RVs; 2) our out-of-sample results further indicate that the HAR-LCPR model performs best in forecasting one- and five-days-ahead RVs, whereas the HAR-CPR model is a more reliable forecasting model for 22-days-ahead volatility; 3) the performance also passes various robustness tests, including sub-period performance testing, alternative training rolling window, and alternative RV estimation. We show the economic mechanism underlying the predictive role of CPR from the perspective of investors' trading activities.. Volatility forecasting; Realized volatility; Conditional past returns; HAR; Leverage effect; COVID-19; Global financial crisis. REALIZED VOLATILITY; MODEL
Reading Between the Reels: An AI-Driven Approach to Analysing Movie Review Sentiment and Market Returns. This study examines the relationship between market sentiment derived from movie reviews and stock returns. Using GPT-4o large language model (LLM), we construct daily sentiment measures from approximately 247,850 movie reviews. Empirical results indicate a robust negative relationship between movie sentiment and excess market returns, suggesting that well-received theatrical films distract investor attention from fundamental market information, leading to reduced market participation and lower returns. The robustness of this finding is confirmed through a comprehensive set of validation tests, including out-of-sample forecasting, multiple testing corrections, and validation against human-annotated sentiment scores. Time-series regressions indicate that the negative relationship between movie sentiment and daily market excess returns persists for approximately 2 or 3 days, but does not hold over longer horizons, and no reversal in returns occurs thereafter. Heterogeneity analyses reveal that this effect is more pronounced during bear markets and the COVID-19 pandemic period, highlighting investor behaviour driven by cognitive fatigue and emotional diversion during stressful market conditions. However, during financial crises, investor attention remains largely focused on critical macroeconomic events, reducing sensitivity to non-financial sentiment signals. Further analyses confirm that elevated movie sentiment negatively affects trading volume and positively influences market volatility, consistent with the attention distraction hypothesis. Our findings remain robust across alternative deep learning architectures including BERT, LSTM, CNN, Bi-LSTM and TIIF. Overall, the findings highlight the importance of investor attention to multimedia visual stimuli and psychological mechanisms in shaping financial market outcomes.. behavioural finance; GPT-4o large language model; market sentiment; movie reviews; stock market returns. INVESTOR SENTIMENT; CROSS-SECTION; STOCK; ATTENTION; PSYCHOLOGY; RISK
Predicting Economic Trends and Stock Market Prices with Deep Learning and Advanced Machine Learning Techniques. The volatile and non-linear nature of stock market data, particularly in the post-pandemic era, poses significant challenges for accurate financial forecasting. To address these challenges, this research develops advanced deep learning and machine learning algorithms to predict financial trends, quantify risks, and forecast stock prices, focusing on the technology sector. Our study seeks to answer the following question: Which deep learning and supervised machine learning algorithms are the most accurate and efficient in predicting economic trends and stock market prices, and under what conditions do they perform best? We focus on two advanced recurrent neural network (RNN) models, long short-term memory (LSTM) and Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU), to evaluate their efficiency in predicting technology industry stock prices. Additionally, we integrate statistical methods such as autoregressive integrated moving average (ARIMA) and Facebook Prophet and machine learning algorithms like Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost) to enhance the robustness of our predictions. Unlike classical statistical algorithms, LSTM and GRU models can identify and retain important data sequences, enabling more accurate predictions. Our experimental results show that the GRU model outperforms the LSTM model in terms of prediction accuracy and training time across multiple metrics such as RMSE and MAE. This study offers crucial insights into the predictive capabilities of deep learning models and advanced machine learning techniques for financial forecasting, highlighting the potential of GRU and XGBoost for more accurate and efficient stock price prediction in the technology sector.. stock prices; deep learning; artificial neural networks; recurrent neural networks; long short-term memory (LSTM); gated recurrent unit (GRU). NETWORKS
Equity Market Description under High and Low Volatility Regimes Using Maximum Entropy Pairwise Distribution. The financial market is a complex system in which the assets influence each other, causing, among other factors, price interactions and co-movement of returns. Using the Maximum Entropy Principle approach, we analyze the interactions between a selected set of stock assets and equity indices under different high and low return volatility episodes at the 2008 Subprime Crisis and the 2020 COVID-19 outbreak. We carry out an inference process to identify the interactions, in which we implement the a pairwise Ising distribution model describing the first and second moments of the distribution of the discretized returns of each asset. Our results indicate that second-order interactions explain more than 80% of the entropy in the system during the Subprime Crisis and slightly higher than 50% during the COVID-19 outbreak independently of the period of high or low volatility analyzed. The evidence shows that during these periods, slight changes in the second-order interactions are enough to induce large changes in assets correlations but the proportion of positive and negative interactions remains virtually unchanged. Although some interactions change signs, the proportion of these changes are the same period to period, which keeps the system in a ferromagnetic state. These results are similar even when analyzing triadic structures in the signed network of couplings.. return volatilities; maximum entropy principle; financial crisis; pairwise interactions; frustration; Kullback-Leibler divergence. INVERSE ISING PROBLEM; INFORMATION-THEORY; SPIN-GLASSES; TIME-SERIES; SYNCHRONIZATION
Overconfidence bias and stock market volatility in Ghana: testing the rationality of investors in the Covid-19 era. Purpose The paper tests the overconfidence bias and volatility on the Ghana Stock Exchange (GSE) during the pre-Covid-19 pandemic and Covid-19 pandemic period. Design/methodology/approach The study employs pairwise Granger causality to test the presence of overconfidence bias on the Ghana stock market as well as GARCH (1,1) and GJR-GARCH (1, 1) models to understand whether overconfidence bias contributed to volatility during pre-Covid-19 pandemic and Covid-19 pandemic period. The pre-Covid-19 pandemic period spans from January, 2019 to December, 2019, and Covid-19 pandemic period spans from January, 2020 to December, 2020. Findings The paper finds a unidirectional Granger causality running from weekly market returns to weekly trading volume during the Covid-19 pandemic period. These results indicate the presence of overconfidence bias on the Ghana stock market during the Covid-19 pandemic period. Finally, the conditional variance estimation results showed that excessive trading of overconfident market players significantly contributes to the weekly volatility observed during the Covid-19 pandemic period. Research limitations/implications The empirical findings demonstrate that market participants on the GSE exhibit conditional irrationality in their investment decisions during the Covid-19 pandemic period. This implies investors overreact to private information and underreact to available public information and as a result become overconfident in their investment decisions. Practical implications Findings from this paper show that there is evidence of overconfidence bias among market players on the GSE. Therefore, investors, financial advisors and other market players should be educated on overconfidence bias and its negative effect on their investment decisions so as to minimize it, especially during the pandemic period. Originality/value This study is a maiden one that underscores investors' overconfidence bias in the wake of a pandemic in the Ghanaian stock market. It is a precursor to the overconfidence bias discourse and encourages the testing of other behavioral biases aside what is understudied during the Covid-19 pandemic period in Ghana.. Overconfidence bias; Covid-19; Granger-causality; GARCH; GJR-GARCH; GSE; C1; G1; G4. COINTEGRATION; BEHAVIOR; TIME
Two decades of contagion effect on stock markets: Which events are more contagious?. This study aims to investigate the impact of a wide range of economic and non-economic events on stock market spillover effects in a group of 16 major developed and emerging countries over the 2000-2020 period. We analyse the size and structure of contagion to verify how different events spread contagion across borders and sectors. We applied the methodology proposed by Diebold and Yilmaz (2009, 2012, 2014) to a wide range of stock market indices using a quantile regression framework. Our findings show that the sectoral and countryspecific indices usually range below the overall market contagion levels, while their density functions differ structurally from those of overall market contagion. Among non-economic events, viruses - notably, the COVID19 pandemic - are the most widespread sources of contagion, while terrorism events affect the widest range of sectors with the greatest magnitude. Among economic events, the strongest negative impact is found for prudential ones. Quantitative easing (QE) and liquidity support reduce overall market contagion, while QE unwinding has a more substantial role than its introduction or expansion, exemplifying its asymmetric impact. We also investigate how investors may benefit from using contagion information in developing trading strategies, highlighting the positive impact of spillover-based weightings on portfolio returns.. Contagion effect; Cross-border spillover; Cross-sector spillover; Events. GLOBAL FINANCIAL CRISIS; IMPULSE-RESPONSE ANALYSIS; VOLATILITY SPILLOVERS; INTERNATIONAL TRANSMISSION; MONETARY-POLICY; INTRADAILY VOLATILITY; TERRORIST ATTACKS; EMERGING MARKETS; EXCHANGE-RATES; US
Covid-19 fiscal support and its effectiveness. This paper uses a threshold-augmented Global VAR model to quantify the macroeconomic effects of countries' discretionary fiscal actions in response to the Covid-19 pandemic and its fallout. Our results are threefold: (1) fiscal policy is playing a key role in mitigating the effects of the pandemic; (2) all else equal, countries that implemented larger fiscal support are expected to experience less output contractions; (3) emerging markets are also benefiting from the synchronized fiscal actions globally through the spillover channel and reduced financial market volatility. (C) 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.. TGVAR; Covid-19; Threshold effects; Fiscal policy
Another Look into Tail Risk Connectedness Using Network Modelling: Evidence from European Stock Markets. This paper proposes an approach for measuring tail risk connectedness in financial networks by leveraging spatial methods, particularly the spatial autoregressive model, applied to Value-at-Risk (VaR) and Expected Shortfall (ES) estimates. Given the definition of the network structure, and departing from traditional methods reliant on volatility spillovers, our approach aims to capture the effect of the nature of the event on the tail dimension of market interconnectedness, offering insights beyond conventional metrics. Our results show that since the nature of the event substantially affects the convergence (divergence) of the response of the agents of the financial network to a shock, accounting for this effect is crucial to correctly measure its transmission. Since not all shocks are similar, events such as the Great Recession or the COVID-19 pandemic do not affect the tail risk of the financial network in a similar way, even when volatility spillovers increase in both cases. The relevance of considering the source of the shock is shown through an empirical analysis of the most important European stock markets, demonstrating the efficacy of the proposed approach in assessing systemic risks, therefore providing a valuable tool for policymakers, investors, and financial regulators.. tail risk connectedness; Value-at-Risk; Expected Shortfall; spatial dependence; financial networks; C22; C31; C51. VALUE-AT-RISK; VOLATILITY-SPILLOVER; SPATIAL DEPENDENCE; EXPECTED SHORTFALL; REAL-ESTATE; MANAGEMENT; BUBBLE
Comparison of Systemic Financial Risks in the US before and after the COVID-19 Outbreak-A Copula-GARCH with CES Approach. The analysis and prediction of systemic financial risks in the US during the COVID-19 pandemic is of great significance to the stability of financial markets in the US and even the world. This paper aims to predict the systemic financial risk in the US before and during the COVID-19 pandemic by using copula-GJR-GARCH models with component expected shortfall (CES), and also identify systemically important financial institutions (SIFIs) for the two comparative periods. The empirical results show that the overall systemic financial risk increased after the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, especially in the first half of the year. We predicted four extreme risks that were basically successful in capturing the high risks in the US financial markets. Second, we identified the SIFIs, and depository banks made the greatest contribution to systemic risk from four financial groups. Third, after the outbreak of the epidemic, the share of Broker-Dealer and Other Institutions in the overall systemic risk has apparently increased. Finally, we recommend that the US financial regulators should consider macro-prudential guidance for major financial institutions, and we should pay more attention to Broker-Dealers, thereby improving the financial stability of the US and the global financial markets.. CES; copula; systemic risk; GARCH; financial crisis. CAPITAL SHORTFALL; MONETARY-POLICY; MARKETS; VOLATILITY; RETURN; BANKS
Incremental Reinforcement Learning for Portfolio Optimisation. Portfolio optimisation is a crucial decision-making task. Traditionally static, this problem is more realistically addressed as dynamic, reflecting frequent trading within financial markets. The dynamic nature of the portfolio optimisation problem makes it susceptible to rapid market changes or financial contagions, which may cause drifts in historical data. While reinforcement learning (RL) offers a framework that allows for the formulation of portfolio optimisation as a dynamic problem, existing RL approaches lack the ability to adapt to rapid market changes, such as pandemics, and fail to capture the resulting concept drift. This study introduces a recurrent proximal policy optimisation (PPO) algorithm, leveraging recurrent neural networks (RNNs), specifically the long short-term memory network (LSTM) for pattern recognition. Initial results conclusively demonstrate the recurrent PPO's efficacy in generating quality portfolios. However, its performance declined during the COVID-19 pandemic, highlighting susceptibility to rapid market changes. To address this, an incremental recurrent PPO is developed, leveraging incremental learning to adapt to concept drift triggered by the pandemic. This enhanced algorithm not only learns from ongoing market data but also consistently identifies optimal portfolios despite significant market volatility, offering a robust tool for real-time financial decision-making.. portfolio optimisation; reinforcement learning; incremental learning; recurrent neural networks; long short-term memory networks
Does image sentiment of major public emergency affect the stock market performance? New insight from deep learning techniques. Leveraging deep learning to analyse COVID-19 image sentiment, this study reveals its significant impact on stock market dynamics. It highlights how vivid imagery prompts marked emotional responses, altering market performance and how news sentiment can modulate this effect. Further, it underscores the pivotal role of forum-based investor sentiment, particularly affecting small-minus-big stocks during downturns and trading week commencements. This research not only advances behavioural finance understanding but also informs management and regulatory strategies.. COVID-19; deep learning technique; image sentiment; stock market. INVESTOR SENTIMENT; NEWS; VOLATILITY; ATTENTION; DECISION; RETURNS; PICTURE; NOISE; TALK; TEXT
Another look at the price clustering behavior: evidence from the Muscat stock exchange. PurposeThe price clustering behavior is becoming a core part of the market efficiency theory especially with the development of trading strategies and the occurrence of major and unprecedented shocks which have led to severe inquiry regarding asset price dynamics and their distribution. However, research on emerging stock market is scant. The study contributes to the literature on price clustering by investigating an active emerging stock market, the Muscat stock market one of the Arabian Gulf Markets.Design/methodology/approachThis research adopts the artificial intelligence technique and other statistical estimation procedure in understanding the price clustering patterns in Muscat stock market and their main determinants.FindingsThe findings reveal that stock prices are marked by clustering behavior as commonly highlighted in the previous studies. However, we found strong evidence of price preferences to cluster on numbers closer to zero than to one. We also show that the nature of firm's activity matters for price clustering behavior. In addition, firms with traded bonds in Oman market experienced a substantial less stock price clustering than other firms. Clustered stock prices are more likely to have higher prices and higher volatility of price. Finally, clustering raised when the market became highly uncertain during the Covid-19 crisis especially for the financial firms.Originality/valueThis study provides novel results on price clustering literature especially for an active emerging market and during the Covid-19 pandemic crisis.. Clustering price; MSM30; Covid-19; Enhanced Fuzzy K-Means clustering; Round prices; C58; D53; G12; G14. MARKET
The determinants of main stock exchange index changes in emerging countries: evidence from Turkey in COVID-19 pandemic age. With the emergence and spreading of COVID-19 pandemic all over the world, the uncertainty has been increasing for countries. Depending on this condition, especially emerging countries have been affected negatively by foreign portfolio investment outflows from stock exchanges, and main stock exchange indices have been collapsed. The study examines the causes of the main stock exchange index changes in Turkey in the COVID-19 period. In this context, 14 variables (3 global, 6 country-level, 5 market-level) are analyzed by employing random forest and support vector machine algorithms and using daily data between 01.02.2020 and 05.15.2020, which includes the pre-pandemic and the pandemic periods. The findings prove that (i) the most important variables are the retention amount of foreign investors in the equity market, credit default swap spreads, government bonds interest rates, Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI) emerging markets index, and volatility index in the pre-pandemic period; (ii) the importance of variables changes as MSCI emerging markets index, the volatility index, retention amount of foreign investors in the equity market, amount of securities held by the Central Bank of Republic of Turkey (CBRT), equity market traded value in the pandemic period; (iii) support vector machine has superior estimation accuracy concerning random forest algorithms in both pre-pandemic and pandemic period.. COVID-19 pandemic; determinants; main stock exchange index; machine learning; Turkey. DEFAULT SWAP SPREADS; FOREIGN OWNERSHIP; RETURN VOLATILITY; CDS SPREADS; EXPERIENCE; INVESTORS; BEHAVIOR; RISKS; LEVEL; FLOWS
The Implications of Contemporary Research on COVID-19 for Volatility and Portfolio Management. This article synthesizes recent and ongoing finance and economics research on pandemic and disaster risk related to COVID-19. Characterized by pronounced market movements and extreme volatility, the unprecedented disruption to the economy in early 2020 has inspired a rich, burgeoning literature on the financial and economic ramifications of pandemic risk. Financial economists have cultivated fresh perspectives regarding the transmission of pandemic-induced uncertainty to financial markets via channels related to the beliefs and behaviors of investors as well as corporate strategies and outcomes. These findings also highlight the imperative role of government policy responses in regulating the market volatility triggered by large-scale disasters such as the pandemic. In this article, the authors take stock of this emerging literature, focusing on the implications for volatility and risk management. In doing so, they discuss the unique nature of the uncertainty induced by COVID-19 relative to that of past crises. They also review cutting-edge studies that use innovative analytical approaches and novel sources of data, offering fruitful avenues for future research.. Tail risks; financial crises and financial market history; big data/machine learning. RARE DISASTERS; MARKETS; RISK
Effects of the GFC and COVID-19 on U.S. Financial Indicators: An Integrated Short-Term Econometric Approach. The 2008 Global Financial Crisis (GFC) and the 2020-2021 COVID-19 pandemic disrupted financial markets, causing volatility, liquidity issues, and shifts in investor behavior. This study analyzes the immediate impacts and recoveries of these events, comparing their characteristics and the effectiveness of policy responses. An event study methodology and a GARCH approach are applied. Results show that-in the GFC Crisis-Lehman Brothers bankruptcy has greater negative impact than the first date of subprime mortgages bad news. In the COVID-19 crisis, closures and vaccines announcements has greater impactthan the first COVID-19 case date in US. Also, the GFC Crisis decreased the valuation levels of key financial indicators as equal as the COVID-19, but this last was less volatility pronounced. These results highlight the importance of timely and effective public policy interventions to mitigate the adverse effects of such crises on financial markets.. GFC-2008; COVID-19; stock markets; abnormal returns; event study; VIX; S&P 500; DJIA. MARKETS; STOCK; CRISIS; EVENT
Dynamic co-movements of COVID-19 pandemic anxieties and stock market returns. In this study, we constructed two pandemic anxiety indexes based on an assumption that people's emotions fluctuate with the COVID-19 reported cases and deaths, to examine the dynamic co-movements between these anxiety indexes and the stock markets in the BRICS and G7 countries. We found that the anxiety indexes are volatile over time but have an overall downtown trend. The correlations between stock market returns and the epidemic anxiety indexes are time varying. We found a common feature across the countries studied, namely that the correlation becomes weaker and has smaller fluctuations after the announcement of the mRNA-based COVID-19 vaccine.. Stock market; COVID-19; Pandemic anxiety index; DCC-GARCH; Co-movement. INDEX; FEAR
Stock Market Volatility in the Covid-19 Era: Insights from a GARCH family and VECM in Tunisia. This paper examines the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on the volatility of the TUNINDEX stock market. Our main goal is to decipher how this worldwide health epidemic has influenced Tunisia's financial stability. A thorough empirical approach was employed, leveraging sophisticated econometric techniques such as GARCH and VECM to scrutinize daily market data. The analysis uncovers a notable escalation in TUNINDEX volatility during the pandemic, emphasizing the critical role of investors' sentiment, economic, and monetary interventions in mitigating the crisis. These insights shed light on the dilemmas and prospects facing investors, portfolio managers, and policymakers in navigating market volatility amidst pandemic uncertainty.. Stock market volatility; TUNINDEX; COVID-19; GARCH; VECM. DIVIDEND POLICY; RETURNS; PRICES; INFLATION; MEMORY; IMPACT
The Effects of Pandemic Event on the Stock Exchange of Thailand. The unprecedented global pandemic of COVID-19 has greatly impacted the stock market in terms of both price reactions and the influences of volatility. Using a sample of 46 stocks listed in the Stock Exchange of Thailand, in this paper, an event study technique is developed considering idiosyncratic volatility to analyze the reactions of stock prices and market volatility in Thailand during the period of the pandemic. The empirical results suggest that most securities in the Thai stock market have been adversely affected by the pandemic, as reflected in the abnormal returns compared to the period before the COVID-19 outbreak. This is mainly attributable to the curtailed economic activities induced by the pandemic as well as policy responses such as social distancing, quarantine and temporary market shutdown. Nevertheless, stocks in different sectors have been shown to have varied in terms of price responses, as some businesses may have benefitted from the pandemic. In terms of market volatility, the cumulated abnormal volatility (CAV) calculated in the paper suggests that volatility in the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) was significantly higher during the event window of COVID-19.. event study; cumulated abnormal volatility; COVID-19; GARCH; stock market reaction. CONDITIONAL HETEROSCEDASTICITY; STUDY METHODOLOGY
Expectations Concordance and Stock Market Volatility: Knightian Uncertainty in the Year of the Pandemic. This study introduces a novel index based on expectations concordance for explaining stock-price volatility when novel events that are each somewhat unique cause unforeseeable change and Knightian uncertainty in the process driving outcomes. Expectations concordance measures the degree to which KU events are associated with directionally similar expectations of future returns. Narrative analytics of daily news reports allow for the assessment of bullish versus bearish views in the stock market. Increases in expectations concordance across all KU events results in reinforcing effects and an increase in stock market volatility. Lower expectations concordance produces a stabilizing effect wherein the offsetting views reduce market volatility. The empirical findings hold for ex post and ex ante measures of volatility and for OLS and GARCH estimates.. expectations concordance; narrative analytics; volatility; Knightian uncertainty. DISAGREEMENT
Backtesting VaR under the COVID-19 sudden changes in volatility. We analyze the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the conditional variance of stock returns. We look at this effect from a global perspective, so we employ series of major stock market and sector indices. We use the Hansen's Skewed-t distribution with EGARCH extended to control for sudden changes in volatility. We oversee the COVID-19 effect on measures of downside risk such as the Value-at-Risk. Our results show that there is a significant sudden shift up in the return distribution variance post the announcement of the pandemic, which must be explained properly to obtain reliable measures for financial risk management.. Backtesting; EGARCH; Monte Carlo; Skewed-t; Value-at-Risk. PERSISTENCE; VARIANCE
